 
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK 
 
 
AMERICAN TRANSIT INSURANCE COMPANY,  
 
Plaintiff,  
 
- against – 
 
BRADLEY PIERRE, MARVIN MOY, M.D., 
RUTLAND MEDICAL P.C., WILLIAM A. WEINER, 
D.O., NEXRAY MEDICAL IMAGING, P.C. d/b/a 
SOUL   RADIOLOGY MEDICAL IMAGING and 
JOHN DOES 1-15, 
 
  Defendants. 
(i) : 
 
____ CV ____ 
 
 
 
COMPLAINT  
 Plaintiff American Transit Insurance Company  (“American Transit”), by and through its 
attorneys, Greenberg Traurig, LLP, for its Complaint against Defendants Bradley Pierre (“Pierre”), 
Marvin Moy, M.D. (“Moy”), Rutland Medical P.C. (“Rutland”), William A. Weiner, D.O. 
(“Weiner”), and Nexray Medical Imaging, P.C. d/b/a Soul Radiology Medical Imaging  
(“Nexray”), John Does 1-15 (the “John Doe Defendants,” and together with the other defendants, 
“Defendants”), hereby alleges as follows on personal knowledge as to itself and information and 
belief as to all other matters: 
NATURE OF THE ACTION 
1. This is an action pursuant to the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations 
Act (“RICO”), 18 U.S.C. § 1961 et seq. and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and the 
common law, to seek redress for the illegal scheme that Defendants have perpetrated for well over 
a decade against American Transit, the largest taxi and livery No-Fault liability insurer in New 
York.  During that time, Defendants have presented to American Transit and demanded payment 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 1 of 93 PageID #: 1 
2 
for numerous false, inflated, and otherwise fraudulent No-Fault claims. As detailed below, as part 
of the rampant fraud that is permeating the No-Fault insurance industry, a cadre of purported 
medical providers and their agents have built an industry on bilking insurance carriers, here 
American Transit, out of millions of dollars by filing, pursuing , and obtaining recovery for false 
insurance claims, in many instances where the claimant has suffered no injury at all, the treatment 
allegedly received is not required, or it far exceeds what is medically necessary to treat the injury 
sustained.  The perpetrators of this scheme hide behind the inordinate volume of No-Fault claims, 
the dated system that resolves them in a superficial way given their volume, and the know ledge 
that the carriers cannot possibly detect, much less protect themselves against , the fraud that lies 
within this deluge of claims.   
2. By t his action  American Transit seeks redress for one such scheme  by which 
Defendants submitted, and caused to be submitted to American Transit for payment, thousands of 
fraudulent No-Fault insurance reimbursement claims for medically unnecessary, non-existent, and 
what would otherwise be non-reimbursable healthcare services, including for purported  
examinations, computerized range of motion and muscle strength testing, physical performance 
testing, outcome assessment testing, physical therapy services, electrodiagnostic testing, 
acupuncture services, chiropractic services, radiological tests, and ma gnetic resonance imaging .  
These claims were for services Defendants represented to American Transit were legitimately and 
necessarily provided to New York automobile accident victims covered by insurance policies 
issued by American Transit.  In truth, the services were either not provided or not necessary, but 
Defendants told American Transit otherwise and concealed the truth.  All told, Defendants’ scheme 
has caused American Transit to pay out millions of dollars in false claims. 
3. Defendants perpetrated their scheme by using medical professional corporations 
Defendants Rutland and Nexray  to generate and process a high volume of patients by paying 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 2 of 93 PageID #: 2 
3 
referral sources hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal kickbacks.  It has surfaced only recently, 
as the federal government has separately sued Defendants for their wrongful conduct. 
4. As reported in the federal indictment in United States v. Pierre, No. 1:22-cv-00019-
PGG (S.D.N.Y.) (hereinafter, the “Criminal Action”) , Defendant Pierre was an architect  of the 
scheme by paying bribes to 911 operators, and hospital employees, among others, in exchange for 
the referral of automobile accident victims to Rutland , a No-Fault medical mill in New York .   
Rutland, in turn, referred patients to Nexray , a CT scan and x -ray provider,  for unnecessary 
diagnostic imaging.  Pierre has since pled guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and conspiracy 
to defraud the Internal Revenue Service.  Weiner has since pled guilty to conspiracy to commit 
healthcare fraud and to defraud the United States. 
5. As part  of the scheme, the Defendants provided patients with medically 
unnecessary treatment not tied to an accident victim’s actual physical condition and then billed for 
these medically unnecessary procedures .  In short, Defendants subjected patients to medical 
services they did not need for the sole purpose of billing American Transit and receiving payment.  
Defendants exploited the insureds’ No-Fault insurance benefits and billed for huge volumes of 
medical services provided solely for profit and without regard for genuine patient care. 
6. Rutland is purportedly owned by Defendant Moy, but upon information and belief, 
is actually owned and controlled by Pierre —an unlicensed layperson—through his management 
company, Medical Reimb ursement Consultants Inc . (“MRC”).  Nexray is nominally owned by 
Weiner, but upon information and belief, is actually owned and controlled by Pierre through his 
management company, MRC. Rutland and Nexray fraudulently held themselves out as prop erly 
licensed professional corporations that are entitled to reimbursement under Article 51 of the 
Insurance Law in violation of  the New York State Department of Financial Services (“DFS”) 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 3 of 93 PageID #: 3 
4 
regulations and the New York State Court of Appeals holding in State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. 
v. Mallela, 827 N.E.2d 758 (N.Y. 2005). 
7. Pierre controls Rutland and Nexray in violation of New York law because non-
physicians—like Pierre —are prohibited fr om owning or controlling medical professional 
corporations in New York.   See United States v. Weiner , No. 1:22-cr-00019-PGG at ECF 367 
(S.D.N.Y. Jan. 11, 2024). 
8. Defendants’ fraudulent scheme was exposed in 202 2, when Pierre, Moy, Weiner 
and other conspirators were indicted in the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York in the Criminal Action and arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit healthcare 
fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering, conspiracy to commit Travel Act bribery, 
aggravated identity theft, and conspiracy to defraud the United States.  
9. The indictment, superseding indictments, and informations  filed in the C riminal 
Actions detail the Defendants’ scheme to defraud No -Fault insurance providers, including 
American Transit, in the tens of millions of dollars.   
10. Here, American Transit seeks recovery of the millions of dollars Defendants stole 
from it  through their fraudulent scheme.  It  seeks a declaration that it was and is not legally 
obligated to pay reimbursement of the more than $2,300,000.00 in No-Fault insurance claims that 
have been submitted by or on behalf of Rutland and Nexray, as they are the product of this illegal 
scheme.  As alleged herein, and as will be shown at trial :  Rutland and Nexray ha d and have no 
right to receive payment for any bills presented to American Transit because of the illicit scheme, 
including because the services they purported to provide were and are not medically necessary and 
were provided—to the extent they were provided at all—pursuant to fraudulent protocols designed 
solely to charge prescribed fees to financially enrich the Defendants, rather than to treat or 
otherwise benefit the patients who purportedly were injured and receiving treatment;  they are the 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 4 of 93 PageID #: 4 
5 
result of unlawful kickback and referral arrangements in violation of federal and state laws ; and 
they are part of the scheme controlled in part by an unlicensed principal—Pierre—rendering void 
all bills presented through this scheme.  
11. As discussed below, the Defendants, at all relevant times, knowingly (a) engaged 
together in a scheme to defraud American Transit using unlawful kickback and referral 
arrangements in violation of New York law ; (b) ordered and provided medical services pursuant 
to fraudulent protocols designed solely to maximize charges to American Transit, and not because 
they were medically necessary or designed to treat  the patients who were subjected to them; and 
(c) presented to American Transit for payment thousand s of No-Fault claims for the alleged cost 
of treatment reimbursement, even though they also knew that a substantial part of those claims 
was false, in that the services were either not performed or medically unnecessary  and that they 
were not eligible to receive payment for those claims. 
12. American Transit reasonably relied on the representations that Rutland, Nexray, 
and their principals Pierre, Moy, and Weiner made to it, including representations in the bills and 
other claims records mailed to American Transit, representations that the charges reflected in such 
documents were true and correct, and representations that the medical procedures for which they 
sought reimbursement had, in fact, occurred and were medically necessary.  As alleged herein, 
such representations were knowingly false when made by Defendants in that the services had  not 
been performed, were medically unnecessary, and/or the reimbursement sought was far in excess 
of what the services actually cost.  
13. Based on such representations , American Transit paid Rutland  and Nexray’s No -
Fault claims, which, to date, exceed  $2,300,000.00.  American Transit has been damaged by 
Defendants’ No-Fault scheme, in that it has paid out millions of dollars in false claims.  As a result 
of the Defendants’ scheme, American Transit has incurred damages of more than $3,240,000.00. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 5 of 93 PageID #: 5 
6 
14. Defendants’ fraudulent scheme has continued uninterrupted since in or about 2008, 
as Defendants, including through their agents, continue to seek to recover for these fraudulent bills 
submitted to American Transit, including through litigation against American Transit. 
15. In this action  for (a) violatio ns of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations (RICO) Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1961, et seq.; (b) common-law fraud; (c) unjust enrichment 
and (d) violations of New York Public Health Law § 238-a, American Transit seeks to recover all 
monies wrongfully paid to Rutland, Nexray, Pierre, Moy, and Weine r as a result of their 
submission of millions of dollars of fraudulent bills presented to and paid by American Transit.   
16. American Transit also seeks a declaration pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2201 that it is 
not obligated to make any payments to Rutland or Nexray in connection with any No-Fault claims 
they have submitted to American Transit. 
THE PARTIES 
A. Plaintiff American Transit Insurance Company 
17. Plaintiff American Transit Insurance Company is duly organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of New York and has its principal place of business in Brooklyn, New York.  
At all times relevant to the allegations contained in this Complaint, American Transit has been and 
is authorized to conduct business in the State of New York. 
18. American Transit is engaged in the writing of automobile insurance policies in the 
State of New York and provides specialized insurance coverage for the taxi and livery commercial 
auto industry, particularly No-Fault insurance coverage.  American Transit is the one of the largest 
No-Fault insurers for the taxi and livery commercial automobile service industry in New York.   
19. This is not the first time when American Transit has been a victim of insurance 
fraud.  It has on several other occasions  been forced to commence litigation in both federal and 
state courts to protect its rights against this fraud and to preserve its business.  These suits include 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 6 of 93 PageID #: 6 
7 
American Transit Insurance Company v. Albis, et  al. (Index No. 656455/2018) (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 
N.Y. Cnty.); American Transit I nsurance Company v. Koppel, et al.  (Index No. 603360/2018) 
(N.Y. Sup. Ct. Nassau Cnty.) ; American Transit Insurance Company v. Akpan, et al.  (Case No. 
18-cv-04420) (E.D.N.Y.); American Transit Insurance Company v. Bilyk, et al. (Case No. 19-cv-
5171) (E.D.N. Y.); American Transit Insurance Company v. Advanced Comprehensive 
Laboratory, LLC, et al. (Case No. 21-cv-413) (E.D.N.Y.); American Transit Insurance Company 
v. Allbody Healing Supplies LLC, et al. (Case No. 22 -cv-5200) (E.D.N.Y.) ; American Transit 
Insurance Company v. Medsource Solutions, Inc., et al.  (Case No. 22 -cv-5317) (E.D.N.Y.) ;  
American Transit Insurance Company v. QBS Solutions, et al. (Case No. 22-cv-6585) (E.D.N.Y). 
B. Defendant Bradley Pierre 
20. Upon information and belief , Defendant Bradley Pierre resides in and is a citizen 
of the State of New Jersey. 
21. Upon information and belief, Pierre is not authorized to practice medicine in the 
State of New York.  Upon information and belief, Pierre is not a licensed medical practitioner. 
22. Contrary to law, Pierre upon further information and belief has owned and 
controlled medical facilit ies that engaged in fraudulent billing to American Transit, including 
Rutland and Nexray in New York. 
23. According to the indictment in the Criminal Action , Pierre is an architect of the 
fraudulent billing scheme involving Rutland and Nexray and has pled guilty  to conspiracy to 
commit bribery and conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service in that case. 
C. Defendant Marvin Moy, M.D. 
24. Upon information and belief, at all relevant times, Defendant Moy resides in and is 
a citizen of the State of New York.   Moy was and is licensed to practice medicine in the State of 
New York.   
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 7 of 93 PageID #: 7 
8 
25. Beginning in or about 2009, and numerous times thereafter, Moy represented 
himself to American Transit to be the sole officer, director, and shareholder of Rutland.   Upon 
information and belief, since at least 2009, Moy ceded operation and management over Rutland to 
Defendant Pierre. 
26. In or about October 13, 2022, Moy allegedly disappeared during a fishing trip 
onboard a recreational vessel approximately 16 miles off the coast of Long Island, New York.  
According to a “Letter of Presumed Death” issued by the United States Coast Guard, Moy was not 
found in the ensuing search.  The letter was intended to document “the loss and presumptive death 
of Marvin Moy, in lieu of a Death Certificate.”   Notwithstanding his disappearance, and alleged 
sole ownership and control of Rutland, Rutland continues through attorneys to prosecute insurance 
collection cases against American Transit. 
27. Moy is a named defendant in the Criminal Action  concerning the criminal 
prosecution of the Nexray/Rutland fraudulent billing scheme. 
D. Defendant William A. Weiner, D.O. 
28. Upon information and belief, at all rele vant times, Defendant Weiner has resided 
in and is a citizen of the State of New York.  Upon information and belief, Weiner is licensed to 
practice medicine in the State of New York. 
29. Beginning in 2011 and numerous times thereafter, Weiner represented himself to 
American Transit to be the sole office, director, and shareholder of Nexray.  Upon information and 
belief, at least since 2008, Weiner ceded operation and management of Nexray to Defendant Pierre. 
30. On January 16, 2024, Weiner pled guilty in  Criminal Action of one count of 
conspiracy to commit healthcare fraud and to defraud the United States, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 
§ 371. 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 8 of 93 PageID #: 8 
9 
E. Defendant Rutland Medical, P.C. 
31. Defendant Rutland is organized as a professional corporation under New York law. 
32. Rutland’s principal place of business is 145 E 98th Street, 1st Floor, Brooklyn, New 
York 11212. 
33. Rutland is an enterprise whose activities affect interstate commerce. 
34. Upon information and belief, at lease since in or around 2008, Pierre and Moy have 
participated in the operation and management of Rutland. 
35. Rutland was and is registered under Moy’s name and medical license .  Upon 
information and belief , Rutland was and is in truth owned and controlled by Pierre during the 
course of this scheme. 
36. As alleged herein, Rutland’s bills for services that it presented to American Transit 
were and are fraudulent because the medical services it provided were medically unnecessary, 
excessive, and designed not to provide No -Fault claimants with medical care they needed but 
rather to maximize No-Fault payments paid to it by American Transit.  
37. As alleged herein, Rutland violated numerous applicable New York licensing 
requirements by (a) allowing unlicensed persons to own and control the entity, (b) billing for 
fraudulent and/or unnecessary medical services , including to American Transit , and ( c) treating 
patients with standardized procedures without regard for the need for those procedures. 
38. Rutland violated N.Y. Public Health Law Section 238, which prohibits cer tain 
health care providers, including providers providing radiological services, from referring the 
performance of such services to those with whom they have financial relationships.  Rutland 
violated N.Y. Pub. Health L. § 238 -a(1)(a) by referring patients  to other providers with which it 
has a financial relationship, including Nexray.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 9 of 93 PageID #: 9 
10 
39. Rutland was and is therefore not eligible to  collect No-Fault payments from 
American Transit under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
F. Defendant Nexray Medical Imaging, P.C. d/b/a Soul Radiology Medical  
Imaging 
40. Defendant Nexray is organized as a professional corporation under New York law. 
41. Upon information and belief, Nexray’s principal place of business is 135-25F 79th 
Street, Suite 2B, Howard Beach, New York 11414. 
42. Nexray is an enterprise whose activities affect interstate commerce. 
43. Upon information and belief, a t least since in or around 2008, Weiner and Pierre 
operated and managed Nexray. 
44. Nexray was registered under Weiner’s name and medical license, but upon further 
information and belief, Nexray was owned and controlled by Pierre during the course of this 
scheme. 
45. As alleged herein, Nexray billed American Transit for unnecessary and/or 
excessive diagnostic radiology services throughout the course of this scheme. 
46. As alleged herein, Nexray’s bills for services that it presented to American Transit 
were and are fraudulent because the radiological services it provided were medically unnecessary, 
excessive, and designed not to provide No-Fault claimants with medical care they needed but 
rather to maximize No-Fault payments paid to it from American Transit. 
47. Nexray violated numerous applicable New York licensing requirements by (a) 
allowing unlicensed persons to own and control the entity, (b) billing insurance carriers, including 
American Transit, for fraudulent and/or unnecessary medical services, and ( c) treating patients 
with standardized procedures without regard for the need for those procedures. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 10 of 93 PageID #: 10 
11 
48. Nexray was and is therefore not eligible to collect no -fault payments from 
American Transit under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
G. John Doe Defendants 
 
49. John Does 1 -15 are individuals and entities whose names are not yet known to 
American Transit, and who have conspired to and did assist in the fraudulent and unlawful conduct 
alleged in this Complaint.  These individuals and entities will be added as defendants when their 
names and the extent of their participation become known through discovery. 
JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
50. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 
1331, as the claims arise under the laws of the United States , including the Racketeer Influenced 
and Corrupt Organizations Act.  See 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). 
51. This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s state law claims pursuant 
to 28 U.S.C. § 1367. 
52. Venue in the Eastern District of New York is proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 
1391(b)(2), as the District where Plaintiff maintains its principal place of business and where a 
substantial amount of the activities providing the basis for this Complaint occurred.  
FACTS COMMON TO ALL CLAIMS 
A. New York’s No-Fault Statutory and Regulatory Framework 
53. New York’s No-Fault laws are designed to ensure that injured victims of motor 
vehicle accidents have an efficient mechanism to pay reasonable fees for necessary professional 
healthcare services.  
54. Under New York’s Comprehensive Motor Vehicle Insurance Repar ations Act 
(N.Y. Ins. Law § 5101, et seq.), and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto (11 N.Y.C.R.R. 
§ 65, et seq.) (collectively the “ No-Fault laws”), motor vehicle insurers are required to provide 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 11 of 93 PageID #: 11 
12 
coverage to persons involved in motor vehicle acci dents, regardless of fault. These benefits are 
known as “No-Fault benefits.”  
55. New York law mandates that No -Fault benefit coverage in the amount of 
$50,000.00 be available to each eligible claimant.  However, under The New York City Taxi and 
Limousine Commission (TLC) rules, which are applicable to  both medallion taxicabs and for-hire 
vehicles, owners of such vehicles must maintain bodily injury liability coverage for injury to one 
person in a motor vehicle accident in an amount not less than $100,000 per person and for injury 
to two or more persons for injury in an accident in an amount of not less than $300,000 and to 
maintain personal injury protection ( No-Fault) coverage in an amount of not less than $200,000 
per person.  The No-Fault insurance policies issued by American Transit at issue in this case are 
subject to these rules.   
56. Each eligible insured person (i.e., “claimant”) may use such No-Fault benefits as a 
source of compensation for any “basic economic loss” incurred as the result of a motor vehicle 
accident.  
57. Under New York’s No-Fault laws, “basic economic loss” is defined to include “all 
necessary expenses” for an array of professional healthcare services, including the evaluations, 
treatments, injections, and surgical procedures purportedly provided by the defendants. N.Y. I ns. 
Law § 5102(a)(1); 11 N.Y.C.R.R. § 65-1.1.  
58. A claimant may assign their No-Fault benefits to third parties, such as professional 
healthcare service providers.  
59. Pursuant to a duly executed assignment of benefits, a healthcare provider may 
submit claims directly to an insurance company and receive paymen t for necessary healthcare 
services rendered, using the claim form required by the New York State Department of Insurance 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 12 of 93 PageID #: 12 
13 
(known by its title “Verification of Treatment by Attending Physician or Other Provider of Health 
Service” or more commonly known as an “NF-3”). 
60. The NF -3 form is important documents in the insurance industry. Th is form  
represents and certifies that the provider’s request for payment is not materially false, misleading, 
or fraudulent. 11 N.Y.C.R.R. § 65.3-11(a); N.Y. Ins. Law § 403(d).  
61. No-Fault automobile insurance was intended to be a form of coverage designed to 
be useful to the consumer and to provide medical coverage, lost wages, and other benefits to people 
injured in automobile accidents so that they can recover from their injuries with minimal disruption 
in their lives.   
62. For approximately twenty years, commencing with its inception in 1974, the No -
Fault system functioned to the benefit of the consumer with premiums that were generally 
affordable. 
63. Since the mid-1990s, however, New York’s No-Fault coverage has been targeted  
by perpetrators of fraud.  An increasingly large number of such persons have gone into business  
with the purpose of abusively billing the New York No -Fault system.  The New York Court of  
Appeals commented in uphol ding changes to the Insurance Department ’s No-Fault regulations 
that the No -Fault system has been targeted by and is permeated with fraud.   As the Court of  
Appeals explained in Matter of Medical Society of New York v. Serio, 100 N.Y.2d 854, 768  
N.Y.S.2d 423 (2003), the fraud has included staged accidents, billing for unnecessary services,  
and organized crime involvement.  Id. at 861-62, 768 N.Y.S.2d at 731. 
64. The problem continues .  DFS explained in  its March 15, 2016  Health Care 
Insurance Fraud Report (the “Report”) that health care fraud has serious adverse impacts on the 
public, consumers, and the insurers.  According to DFS, this fraud includes medical providers that 
bill for services that were not provided or that were  unnecessary, and constituted the majo rity of 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 13 of 93 PageID #: 13 
14 
all health care fraud in New York.  DFS noted that insurers are required to investigate fraud and 
have a plan for the investigation and initiation of civil actions.  In the transmittal of the Report to 
the Governor, DFS reported that No-Fault insurance fraud costs the public in New York “hundreds 
of millions of dollars” in insurance costs.  
65. The abusive practices set forth herein not only drive up the cost of insurance  and 
place its availability at risk, they place in peril the quality of health care available to the public. 
66. New York law prohibits licensed healthcare services providers from paying or 
accepting kickbacks in exchange for patient referrals.  See, e.g., N.Y. Pub. Health Law 238. 
67. Therefore, under the New York No-Fault laws, a healthcare services provider is not 
eligible to receive personal injury protection (“PIP”) benefits if it is fraudulently licensed, if it pays 
or receives unlawful kickbacks in exchange for patient referrals, if it permits unlicensed laypersons 
to control or dictate the treatments rendered or allows unlicensed laypersons to share in the fees 
for the professional services.   
68. When a healthcare services provider submits a claim for PIP Benefits using the  
current procedural terminology (“CPT”) codes set forth in the NY Fee Schedule, it represents that: 
(i) the service described by the specific CPT code that is used was performed in a competent 
manner in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the service described by the 
specific CPT code that is used was reasonable and medically necessary; and (iii) the service and 
the attendant fee were not excessive. 
69. Pursuant to New York Insurance Law § 403, the NF -3s form  submitted by a 
healthcare services provider to American Transit, and to all other au tomobile insurers, must be  
verified by the health care provider subject to the following warning: 
Any person who knowingly and with intent to defraud any 
insurance company or other  person files an application for 
insurance or statement of claim containing any materially false  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 14 of 93 PageID #: 14 
15 
information, or conceals for the purpose of misleading, information 
concerning any fact  material thereto, commits a fraudulent 
insurance act, which is a crime. 
 
70. Further, under New York’s No-Fault laws and regulations,  medical providers are 
not eligible to seek or receive payment under Insurance Law § 5102 if they fail to meet any New 
York State licensing requirement necessary to perform such service in New York. 
71. An insurer may withhold No-Fault benefit payments to a medical provider if there 
is a “willful and material failure” by the provider to abide by licensing and incorporation statutes.   
Mallela, 827 N.E.2d at 761; N.Y.C.R.R. § 65-3.16(a)(12). 
72. Parties may “look beyond the face of licensing documents” to demonstrate illegal 
ownership and control.  Id.  Factors that may be considered when determining actual control of a 
medical provider include one-sided agreements, control of assets, profit sharing, and the extent of 
the nominal owner’s role in the entity’s business.  See Andrew Carothers, M.D., P.C. v Progressive 
Ins. Co., 979 N.Y.S.2d 439, 443-44 (2d Dep’t 2013). 
73. A medical provider’s illegal corporate practice “may support a finding t hat the 
provider is not an eligible recipient of reimbursement under 11 N.Y.C.R.R. § 65 -3.16(a)(12) 
without meeting the traditional elements of common -law fraud.”  Andrew Carothers, M.D., P.C. 
v. Progressive Ins. Co., 128 N.E.3d 153, 163 (N.Y. 2019). 
B. Defendants’ Fraudulent Scheme  
74. Defendants’ scheme surfaced in January 2022, when Moy, Pierre, and Weiner were 
indicted in the Criminal Action on charges of conspiracy to commit healthcare fraud, conspiracy 
to commit money laundering, conspiracy to commit Travel Act bribery, and aggravated identify 
theft.  A superseding indictment was filed on June 26, 2023 (the “Superseding Indictment”). 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 15 of 93 PageID #: 15 
16 
75. As set forth in the indictment, “[f]rom at least in or about 2008 up to and including 
in or about 2021 ,” Pierre, Moy, Weiner, and other co -conspirators “participated in a criminal 
scheme to exploit insurance programs designed to protect motor vehicle accident victims.” 
76. As set forth in the Superseding Indictment, Pierre recruited medical practitioners to 
open No-Fault clinics from at least 2008 through 2021.  These clinics fell into two groups: the No-
Fault clinics that conduct initial evaluations of patients and prescribed specialized care, such as 
Rutland, and MRI facilities—such as Nexray—that provide medical imaging services. 
77. These No -Fault clinics “wer e not owned, operated, and controlled by licensed 
medical practitioners as is required by law.”  (Superseding Indictment ¶ 15.)  Pierre “was the actual 
owner, operator, and controller” of the No-Fault clinics.  (Id.) 
78. Pierre “received the majority of the [c]linics’ proceeds and decided how much the 
nominal owners would be paid.”  (Id.) 
79. Pierre “possessed the checkbooks  and pre-signed checks from the [c]linic’s bank 
accounts; controlled the debit and credit cards for the [c]linics.”  (Id.) 
80. Pierre “controlled hiring and firing of the [c]linic’s employees; invested the initial 
funds to establish the Clinics.”  (Superseding Indictment ¶ 15.) 
81. Pierre “identified the locations for the [c]linics; negotiated the rent for the [c]linics’ 
leases.”  (Id.) 
82. Pierre “ chose the  attorneys that would represent the [c]linics in arbitration, 
litigation, and sworn depositions before insurance companies.”  (Id.) 
83. Pierre arranged for the No -Fault clinics to use Moy “ to conduct painful and 
medically unnecessary  electrodiagnostic test ing” on patients including electromyography and 
nerve conduction velocity testing.  (Id. ¶ 16.) 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 16 of 93 PageID #: 16 
17 
84. As set forth in the Superseding Indictment, Pierre “profited every step of the way.”  
In addition to receiving the majority of the proceeds of the No -Fault clinics, Pierre required the 
No-Fault clinics to refer patients to a network of  pharmacies, attorneys, and medical  specialists 
“handpicked” by Pierre for one reason – “they paid [Pierre] millions of dollars for illegal referrals.”  
(Superseding Indictment ¶ 17.) 
85. According to the  Superseding Indictment, Pierre engaged in the following illegal 
activities:  
a. Pierre steered hundreds of patients from the clinics to Nexray.  (Id. ¶¶ 18-19.) 
b. Nexray purported to be operated and controlled by a licensed physician—Weiner—
but in practice, Pierre owned, operated, and controlled Nexray.  (Id.) 
c. Pierre received the majority of Nexray’s proceeds.  (Id.) 
d. Pierre controlled Nexray’s bank accounts.  (Id.) 
e. Pierre influenced the hiring and firing of Nexray’s employees.  (Id.) 
f. Pierre identified the locations for Nexray’s facilities.  (Id.) 
g. Pierre negotiated the rent for Nexray’s leases.  (Id.) 
h. Pierre chose the attorneys that would represent Nexray in arbitration, litigation, and 
sworn depositions before insurance companies.  (Id.) 
86. Pierre further arranged for a network of No-Fault doctors and attorneys to refer 
patients to Nexray for medical care —often through bribery —in addition to the No -Fault clinics 
under his control.  (Id. ¶¶ 18-19.) 
87. To boost referrals to Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner “agreed to falsify clinical findings 
of injuries on MRI reports and pressure radiologists working for Nexray to exaggerate findings of 
injuries in their own reports.”  (Id. ¶ 20.)   
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 17 of 93 PageID #: 17 
18 
88. These false clinical findings  allowed referring physicians and at torneys to bill for  
additional benefits under the No-Fault laws and obtain larger legal settlements and judgments.   
(Superseding Indictment ¶ 20.)   
89. Pierre arranged for physicians, including Moy and Weiner “to lie under  oath to 
insurance companies to conceal the healthcare fraud scheme.”  (Id. ¶ 21.)   
90. Pierre, Moy, and Weiner  were aware that insurance companies would deny  
reimbursement for the No -Fault clinics if Moy and Weiner  testified truthfully about the  medical 
necessity of treatments and Pierre’s control of the Clinics. (Id. ¶ 21.)    
91. Pierre arranged for Moy and Weiner to falsely state under oath, among other things, 
that Pierre was solely a lender for Rutland and Nexray  and Pierre played no role in r eferring 
patients to the clinics.  (Id. ¶ 21.)   
92. Pierre, Moy, and Weiner laundered the proceeds of the No-Fault scheme to conceal 
the operation.  (Superseding Indictment ¶ 22.) 
93. To conceal the scheme, Pierre relied on co -conspirators to set up shell companies, 
which he then paid using one of the companies he controlled, Marketing 4 You.  (Id. ¶ 23.)   
94. To conceal his receipt of the No-Fault scheme proceeds, Pierre caused the No-Fault 
clinics to transfer the proceeds from the scheme to his own company, Medical Reimbursement 
Consultants (“MRC”).  (Id. ¶ 24.)  The payments were falsely described as loan repayments.  (Id. 
¶ 25.) 
95. As part of these phony financing arrangements, Pierre purportedly gave loans to 
Moy and Weiner “in return for a percentage of any money later paid by insurance companies.”  
(Id. ¶ 26.)  In reality, Moy and Weiner directly paid Pierre in excess of at least $2.4 million of what 
Pierre was entitled to receive under the phony agreements.  (Id.)   
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 18 of 93 PageID #: 18 
19 
C. Fraudulent Billing for Unnecessary Medical Services 
96. As part of the scheme, Rutland and Weiner submitted bills to American Transit for 
as many services as possible —even for services that were medically unnecessary —to enrich 
Pierre, Moy, Weiner, and others.  This scheme is described in further detail below. 
1. The Initial Examinations: Gateway to the Scheme 
97. As part of  Defendants’ fraudulent scheme, Rutland , through Moy,  provided 
virtually every patient with a purported initial examination.  These initial examinations were used 
to provide phony diagnoses so that Defendants could use them as a false basis to refer patients to 
obtain medically unnecessary exams, tests, or procedures.  Defendants then billed American 
Transit for these medically unnecessary follow-up examinations, chiropractic services, injections, 
electrodiagnostic testing, and related services. 
98. The charges for the reported initial examinations were fraudulent in that the initial 
examinations—to the extent they were performed at all —were part of a scheme to use the 
examinations merely as a gateway to referring patients to obtain more expensive lucrative exams, 
tests, and procedures that could be billed to American Transit.   
99. The charges for the purported initial examinations also were fraudulent in that they 
misrepresented the nature  of and justifications for  the purported examinations.  For example, as 
described in the case studies below, in certain instances claimants  went to the emergency room 
following the alleged motor vehicle accident in question and were released the same day with no 
material injury, no surgery, no prescriptions for pain medication, and no referrals for imaging  or 
testing.   Yet, shortly thereafter upon examination by Moy, many of these same patients who had 
been released by hospitals suddenly needed referrals for expensive imaging, physical therapy,  
neurological testing, and other services. 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 19 of 93 PageID #: 19 
20 
2. Fraudulent Chiropractic Services 
100. Defendants’ scheme involved Rutland’s and Moy’s provision of and billing for a 
highly templated and generic regimen of often unnecessary chiropractic care that was accompanied 
by a barrage of overlapping , redundant, and unnecessary  diagnostic tests, the results of which 
Rutland and Moy routinely disregarded and ignored.  
101. These tests and services were not provided based on any medical necessity  or 
request of the patient.  For example, patient I.V., whose treatment is described below, was provided 
with repeated chiropractic services at Rutland, in addition to various tests, imagining, and office 
visits, even though the patient had been seen and received MRI imaging at a hospital immediately 
following the relevant motor vehicle accident.  
102. The tests and servi ces, including but not limited to those received by the patients 
described the paragraphs below, were administered as a means to (a) maximize Rutland’s profits 
through the submission of billing to American Transit and (b) justify the provision of additional, 
excessive, and medically unnecessary treatment, all of which was purposely provided as part of 
the Defendants’ scheme involving unlawful referrals and to provide unnecessary services and bill 
American Transit for those services.  
103. Rutland, by Moy and Pierre, promoted, administered, and billed for these 
chiropractic services and related diagnostic tests.  
3. Fraudulent Electrodiagnostic Testing 
104. A central part of the Defendants’ scheme was also to fraudulently provide and bill 
for unnecessary and excessive electrodiagnostic (“EDX”) testing.   EDX testing is generally used 
in the clinical evaluation of patients with disorders of the peripheral and/or central nervous system.  
105. EDX testing involves multiple studies performed by a healthcare provider, such as 
(a) electromyography studies, which evaluate the health of muscles and the nerve cells that control 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 20 of 93 PageID #: 20 
21 
them and (b) nerve conduction studies , which measure how fast an electrical impulse moves  
through the nerve.  EDX is used to help a practitioner evaluate symptoms, generate a proper 
diagnosis, and monitor patient response to treatments.  
106. EDX testing is not to be administered uniformly across a patient population .  
Because proper EDX testing should involve the use of a patient-specific approach, the nature and 
scope of the testing should change (and evolve) based on the condition of the particular patient, 
and as the testing is administered to a patient.  
107. Here, the E DX testing provided by M oy (or those Rutland employees or agents 
acting under M oy’s direction and control) provides a clear example of the Defendants’ sham 
treatment protocol in which the same litany of services was provided to patients regardless of the 
patients’ condition, age, gender, or prior medical history.  
108. For example, the use of electromyography was so excessive that many Rutland 
patients that underwent EDX were subjected to (and thus subsequently billed for) this testing on 
all four limbs, which is exceedingly rare and uncommon.   
109. Not only was Rutland and Moy’s barrage of testing redundant and unnecessary, it 
also posed a serious risk of harm to patients because (a) patients were most often needlessly 
subjected to  these invasive te sts, (b) the tests yielded incorrect or inaccurate findings and 
diagnoses, and (c) Moy often disregarded or ignored the results of the tests causing Rutland 
patients to not receive proper care. 
110. This barrage of testing also created significant unnecessary expense.  
i. Fraudulent Nerve Conduction Studies 
111. In a legitimate clinical setting, nerve conduction studies  are administered to 
measure nerve conduction by stimulating the nerves with a small electrical current.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 21 of 93 PageID #: 21 
22 
112. Nerve conduction s tudies involve both F -Wave (“F -Wave”) and H -Reflex (“H -
Reflex”) studies.  F-wave studies are used to examine the t ransmission of stimulation sites in the 
arm and leg and related motor neuron responses.  H-Reflex studies involving stimulation of a nerve 
and recording the reflex electrical discharge from a muscle in limb, and evaluates other nerve 
impulses. 
113. Nerve conduction studie s typical ly confirm whether the nerves are functioning 
properly.  
114. Nerve conductio n studies should be applied in a dynamic  (meaning patient by 
patient) rather than  by using a generally applicable  protocol; in other words, the format and 
application of these studies should vary from pat ient to patient and should also be based on the 
patient’s symptoms, findings and suspect diagnosis determined by the professional.  
115. Dynamic decision making regarding each individual test is required by the provider 
to properly administer EDX testing such as nerve conduction studies. 
116. According to the American Medical Association (“AMA”), the use of dynamic 
decision-making in electrodiagnostic testing, such as nerve conduction studies, is a prerequisite to 
obtain reimbursement for electrodiagnostic CPT coding.  
117. Contrary to the AMA’s requirements, Moy administered nerve conduction studies 
without regard to his patient’s symptoms, findings or suspect diagnoses  as evidenced by the 
virtually identical justifications he recorded for administering nerve conduction studies  to his 
patients, without regard to the varying medical conditions of these patients.  
118. Moy failed to tailor his EDX testing to each individual patient and instead followed 
a pre-determined protocol approach when using nerve conduction studies, which resulted in both 
the over-utilization of nerve conduction studies and the administration of the same studies to most 
of Rutland’s patients.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 22 of 93 PageID #: 22 
23 
119. Moy administered nerve conduction studies to (a) generate billing for otherwise 
unnecessary services, (b) create a false foundation for the provision of additional tests and services, 
and (c) produce profits for Rutland and for Moy.  
120. As a direct resu lt of Moy’s protocol approach to nerve conduction s tudies—
including (a) his overutilization of the studies, (b) misinterpretation of the results, (c) 
misrepresentation of the diagnoses, and (d) his failure to utilize the results in his patients’ treatment 
plans—the charges submitted to American Transit by Ruland for nerve conduction studies were 
excessive and not compensable under New York No-Fault laws.  
121. The studies listed in Exhibit A (i.e., the nerve conduction studies billed by Rutland 
under CPT codes 95903 and 95904) demonstrate Moy’s intentional and grossly irresponsible 
pattern and practice of misusing nerve conduction studies in connection with Rutland patients  in 
order to generate billing for services and to present false billing statements to American Transit.  
122. Because the nerve conduction st udies administered to Rutland patients were 
excessive unwarranted, and presented by a company owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, each charge submitted to American Transit by Rutland for these studies is not 
compensable under New York No-Fault laws. 
123. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to Rutland for such 
nerve conduction studies, including, but not limited to those listed in Exhibit A. 
124. As to Rutland’s bills for nerve conduction studies  presented to American Transit 
that remain unpaid, American Transit is under no obligation to pay them because those studies 
were excessive, not warranted, presented by a company owned or controlled by a person who is 
not a licensed physician, and are therefore not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws.  
 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 23 of 93 PageID #: 23 
24 
ii. Fraudulent Electromyography Studies 
125. Electromyography studies measure electrical activity in  specific muscles and are 
often performed in conjunction with nerve conduction studies.  
126. Electromyography studies involve the insertion of a needle into various muscles—
the studies can be performed on any muscle accessible to an electromyography needle. 
Electromyography testing is invasive, as very fine needles are inserted into several muscles.  The 
needles have a microscopic electrode that picks up electronical signals from the muscles.  If the 
muscles are found to be functioning normally, then an inference is creat ed that the connection 
between the motor nerve and the spinal cord is normal.   
127. An abnormal result from an electromyography study indicates, among other 
possibilities, the presence of problems with the nerve root near the spinal cord, or with the 
peripheral nerve near the muscle.  
128. Similar to nerve conduction studies, the use of electromyography studies should 
vary from patient-to-patient; otherwise, the testing provider risks reaching an incorrect diagnosis 
if the same muscles are being tested in the same number and sequence across the entire patient 
population.  
129. As such, electromyography studies should be used with a dynamic (patient by 
patient) rather than general protocol approach.  
130. Because each patient should be evaluated based upon their individual needs, 
electromyography studies should be limited and reserved for when specific outcomes are bei ng 
investigated, such as when a single limb’s muscles are being reviewed for radiculopathy, which is 
the pinching of a nerve root in the spinal column.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 24 of 93 PageID #: 24 
25 
131. Furthermore, the muscles selected for electromyography studies should present the 
least amount of pain possible for the patient. As such, the testing provider should know how to test 
each muscle and know how to best limit the amount of pain for her or his patient.  
132. Regardless of these proscriptions, Rutland and Moy used a protocol approach when 
administering electromyography studies to Rutland patients and did not  tailor the 
electromyography studies to the specific, individualized needs of each patient. 
133. Testing in this manner is not just excessive and medically unnecessary, but it can 
also harm the pat ient because of the risk of pain, bleeding, infection and nerve injury  associated 
with these tests.  
134. Rutland and Moy subjected Rutland pat ients to needless and unwarranted (and 
sometimes painful) electromyography studies as part of a pre -determined protocol that was 
intentionally employed to (a) generate billing for otherwise unnecessary services, (b) create a false 
foundation for the provision of additional te sts and services, and (c) produce profits for Rutland 
and for Moy.  
135. As a direct result of Rutland and Moy’s protocol approach to electromyography 
studies—including (a) his overutilization of these studies, (b) misinterpretation of the results, (c) 
misrepresentation of the diagnoses, and (d) his f ailure to utilize the results of these studies in his 
patients’ treatment plan—the charges submitted to American Transit for electromyography studies 
were excessive and not compensable under New York No-Fault laws, including, but not limited 
to, those listed in Exhibit B.  
136. The electromyography studies bil led by Rutland under CPT code 95861  
demonstrate Moy’s intentional and grossly irresponsible pattern and practice of misusing 
electromyography studies in connection with Rutland patients.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 25 of 93 PageID #: 25 
26 
137. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments  it made to Rutland for such 
electromyography studies, including, but not limited to those listed in Exhibit B.  
138. As to Rutland’s bills for electromyography studies presented to American Transit 
that remain unpaid, American Transit is under no obligation to pay  them because those studies 
were excessive, not warranted, presented by a company owned or controlled by a person who is 
not a licensed physician, and therefore not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws.  
iii. Fraudulent H-Reflex Tests 
139. An H -Reflex is a reflectory reaction of muscles after electrical stimulation of 
sensory fibers in their innervating nerves.  An H-Reflex is performed using an electric stimulator. 
140. While H-Reflex can occur in multiple mixed nerves, H -Reflex testing is best 
practiced clinically only through stimulation of the tibial nerve. 
141. H-Reflex testing is rarely practiced on additional mixed nerves and even then it i s 
mainly for research purposes, not for patient diagnosis.  
142. Upper limb H-Reflex testing in the median nerve is not a common clinical practice; 
indeed, it borders on experimental and its routine use is below the standard of care.  
143. As such, H -Reflex testing dictates that a dynamic approach, rather than a set 
protocol, is needed for its diagnosis and use.  
144. Ignoring the standard of care and reasonable practice, Moy used H-Reflex testing 
on both the upper limbs and lower limbs when treating virtually every Rutland patient that 
underwent H-Reflect testing.   
145. Rutland and Moy’s abuse of H-Reflex testing is illustrated by billing for hundreds 
and hundreds of these tests on patients already receiving other, similar tests.  For example, Dr. 
Moy regularly used H -Reflex tests in several lower limb studies, even where they were not 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 26 of 93 PageID #: 26 
27 
medically necessary.  There was no basis for all of these tests, as standard electromyography 
studies and nerve conduction studies are more than adequate for diagnoses.      
146. The uniform provision of H -Reflex testing demonstrates that Moy ordered these 
tests as part of a scheme to prescribe expensive treatments so that Rutland could bill American 
Transit for them without regard to individualized needs of his patients.  
147. In at least one instance, Moy also made a diagnosis that was contrary to the H -
Reflex test that he ordered.  This occurred in the lower limb stu dy of patient L.J., in which the 
given diagnoses included left L5 -S1 radiculopathy. The H reflex testing should have shown the 
left H reflex delayed in latency by at least two milliseconds. Instead, the right H reflex was longer 
by 1.34 milliseconds. The H reflex result was contrary to Moy’s diagnosis of left L5 -S1 
radiculopathy.  By failing to recognize and report these critical findings, Moy did not meet the 
standard of care and placed these patients at risk of receiving the wrong medical treatment. 
148. Rutland and Moy subjected Rutland patients to needless and unwarranted (and 
sometimes painful) H -Reflex tests as part of a scheme that was intentionally employed to (a) 
generate billing for otherwise unnecessary services, (b) create a false foundation for the provision 
of additional tests and services, and (c) produce profits for Rutland and for Moy.  
149. The H-Reflex testing administered to Rutland patients by M oy (or those Rutland 
employees or agents working under his direction and control) was excessive and not medically 
necessary, and the results were materially misrepresented.  
150. As a direct result of Rutland’s and Moy’s protocol approach to H -Reflex tests—
including (a) his overutilization of these studies, (b) misinterpretation of the results,  (c) 
misrepresentation of the diagnoses; and (d) his failure to utilize the results of these studies in his 
patients’ treatment plan —the charges submitted to A merican Transit for H -Reflex tests were 
excessive and not compensable under New York No-Fault laws.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 27 of 93 PageID #: 27 
28 
151. The services listed in Exhibit C (i.e., the H -Reflex tests billed by Rutland under 
CPT code 95934 ) demonstrate Rutland and Moy’s intentional and grossly irresponsible pattern 
and practice of misusing H -Reflex tests in connection with Rutland patients, by employing them 
to virtually the entire Rutland patient population, regardless of medical necessity, and 
misdiagnosing the results of those tests.  
152. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to for such H-Reflex 
tests, including, but not limited to those listed in Exhibit C. 
153. As to Rutland’s bills for H-Reflex presented to American transit that remain unpaid, 
American Transit  is under no obligation to pay them because those tests were excessive, not 
warranted, presented by a company owned or contr olled by a person who is not a licensed 
physician, and therefore not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws.  
iv. Fraudulent Range of Motion Testing 
154. Spinal range of motion (“ ROM”) occurs in three separate segments of the spine: 
cervical, thoracic, and lumbar.  It can become impaired in automobile accidents. 
155. Testing is used to measure spinal ROM in three planes of motion.  ROM testing is 
typically initially performed by a series of manual tests. 
156. Rutland and Moy administered computerized ROM testing, a far more expensive 
procedure, when a manual determination of a patient’s ROM in the initial evaluation was sufficient 
and constitutes the standard of care.  
157. As a direct result of Rutland’s and Moy’s protocol approach to ROM tests—
including (a) his overutilization of these tests, (b) misinterpretation of the results,  (c) 
misrepresentation of the diagnoses ; and (d) his f ailure to utilize the results of these tests in his 
patients’ treatment plan—the charges submitted to American Transit for ROM tests were excessive 
and not compensable under New York No-Fault laws.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 28 of 93 PageID #: 28 
29 
158. For these reasons, the charges submitted by Rutland for ROM testing were false 
and fraudulent and, therefore, not compensable.  
159. Because the charges for the ROM tests administered to Rutland patients were false 
and fraudulent  because they were medically unnecessary , presented by a company owned or 
controlled by a person who is not a licensed physician, and/or otherwise billed improperly, each 
charge submitted to A merican Transit by Rutland for these tests is not compensable unde r New 
York No-Fault laws, including, but not limited to, the ROM tests billed by Rutland under CPT 
code 95851 that are listed in Exhibit D.  
160. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to Rutland for such 
ROM tests, including, but not limited to those listed in Exhibit D.  
161. As t o Rutland’s bills for ROM test s presented to American Transit that remain 
unpaid, American Transit is under no obligation to  pay them because the charges for those tests 
were misrepresented and false, and, therefore, not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws.  
v. Fraudulent Manual Muscle Testing  
162. Manual muscle testing (“MMT”) is generally utilized to measure a patient’s muscle 
strength by applying opposing, resistant forces against the body of the patient, who is attempting 
to move against this force.  
163. As the standard of care in a  clinical setting, MMT is used only on a case -by-case 
basis. 
164. Moy provided virtually the same justification for providing MMT for each of his  
patients.  For each patient , he issued the same boilerplate “Letter of Medical Necessity for 
Computerized Range of Motion & Manual Muscle Test” that did not take into the account the 
individual medial needs of each patient.  Each letter stated that “these assessments must be made 
on a monthly basis to monitor progress and efficient treatment.”  But thes e tests were never used 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 29 of 93 PageID #: 29 
30 
for that purpose and were conducted for the sole purpose of billing American Transit.  Rutland’s 
billing for MMT is false and fraudulent because multiple charges under the same CPT code were 
submitted for a particular patient, even though the testing was conducted in the same session  on 
the same patient.  
165. Because the muscle testing was unnecessary and because the associated charges for 
this testing were false and fraudulent, including being presented by a company owned or controlled 
by a person who is not a licensed physician, the bills submitted to American Transit by Rutland 
for muscle testing (i.e., the charges billed by Rutland under CPT code 95831) are not compensable 
under New York No-Fault laws, including, but not limited to, those listed in Exhibit E.  
166. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to Rutland for such 
testing, including, but not limited to those tests listed in Exhibit E. 
167. As to Rutland’s bills presented to American Transit that remain unpaid (including, 
but not limited to, billing by Rutland under CPT code  95831, American Transit is under no 
obligation to pay them because the services were unnecessary and unwarranted, because the 
charges for those tests were misrepresented  and false, and because they were invoiced by a 
company owned or controlled by a person who is not a licensed physician, they are  not 
compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws.  
4. Fraudulent Diagnostic Imaging 
168. Imaging includes provision of x-ray photography, MRIs, and CT scans, which are 
used to examine internal conditions of the human body. 
169. MRI testing is an imaging technique that can produce high quality images of the  
muscle, bone, tissue , and nerves inside the human body. MRIs often are used following auto  
accidents to diagnose abnormalities in the nerve roots through the images of the nerves, nerve 
roots, and surrounding areas. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 30 of 93 PageID #: 30 
31 
170. Early imaging (i.e., shortly following an injury) is indicated for the evaluation of 
spinal or musculoskeletal injuries where there is a concern for a fracture, a dislocated joint, or a 
spinal injury with impending neurological compromise. 
171. Early imaging may also be warranted if there is a concern for infection or 
malignancy. 
172. In the case of low impact motor vehicle accidents, early imaging studies for patients 
are only warranted in limited circumstances. 
173. Nonetheless, Rutland and Moy referred patients for early diagnostic imaging 
without any indication that such imaging was necessary at the outset of their care. 
174. Despite the absence of indications for early imaging, Moy ordered multiple MRI 
scans at the initial examination of Rutland patients before they were afforded any meaningful 
opportunity to undergo a course of conservative treatment.   Moy also ordered MRIs even where 
patients had already had imaging performed at hospitals following their motor vehicle inci dents, 
without any indication additional MRIs were warranted. 
175. Moy also ordered MRI scans for asymptomatic areas of multiple Rutland patients. 
176. Moy systemically referred patients to Nexray for imaging, including MRIs, 
regardless of where patients lived or the specific type of imaging necessary.   
177. In several instances, Moy ordered MRIs of the head, spine, and peripheral joint on 
initial visits.  For example, for one patient, J.J., Moy ordered seven MRIs at the initial examination, 
which only occurred three weeks post -accident.  Moy’s typical practice was to order an MRI on 
any body part where a patient said they were having pain.  With respect to J.J., it is unlikely all 
seven MRIs were medically indicated particularly given that J.J. was still working as a home health 
aide at the time of her examination. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 31 of 93 PageID #: 31 
32 
178. The letters of medical necessity that Rutland submitted to support the MRIs were 
also boilerplate and failed to describe patients ’ clinical situations correctly.  For example, for 
patient J.J., the letter stated that J.J. had a head injury and “head pain,” yet the initial exam report 
indicated that the patient had only “intermittent” headache without blurred vision or tinni tus.  
Further, the letter of medical necessity for J.J. stated that J.J. was “on a comprehensive 
rehabilitation program,” and yet she had not had any physical therapy or any other rehabilitation 
treatments prior to the MRI.  
179. Rather, Rutland and M oy knowingly prescribed medically unnecessary and 
unwarranted imaging.  Further, Rutland and Nexray were under Pierre’s control and knowingly 
participated in a scheme whereby Rutland referred patients for medically unnecessary imaging so 
that Nexray could conduct these expensive tests and bill American Transit for them , all to 
Defendants’ benefit.   
180. Because the imaging was unnecessary and because the associated charges for this 
testing were false and fraudulent, including being presented by a company owned or controlled by 
a person who is not a licensed physician, the bills submitted to American Transit by Nexray for 
imaging are not compensable under New York No-Fault laws, including, but not limited to, those 
listed in Exhibit F.  
181. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to Nexray for such 
testing, including, but not limited to those tests listed in Exhibit F. 
182. American Transit is entitled to recover all payments it made to Nexray for such 
imaging.  
183. As to Nexray’s bills for imaging presented to American Transit that remain unpaid, 
American Transit is under no obligation to pay them because the imaging was unnecessary, and 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 32 of 93 PageID #: 32 
33 
because the bills were presented by a company owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, and therefore not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
D. Specific Examples of Fraudulent Billing by Defendants 
184. Medical records of particular patients obtained by American Transit confirm 
Defendants’ fraud and repeatedly subjecting their patients to unnecessary medically unnecessary 
procedures and billing American Transit for those services.   These services were intentionally 
provided for the purpose of generating billing to American Transit and enriching Defendants. 
a. Patient D.W. (claim no. TNC17000535-301)  
 
185. Patient D.W w as allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on December 1, 
2017. 
186. D.W. was taken to the hospital for evaluation.  X -rays were taken of D.W.’s right 
hip and knee.  No fractures were identified and she was released from the hospital the same day 
with instructions to rest. 
187. Despite any indication that early imaging was warranted , o n January 3, 2018, 
Nexray purportedly took two MRIs of D.W.’s right shoulder and brain .  Nexray billed American 
Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
188. There were no reports of any injuries to D.W.’s shoulder or brain.  D.W. never 
claimed she sustained trauma or impact to her head.  No physical examination of the head was 
ever conducted to determine whether there were any head bruises, lacerations, abrasions, and/or 
bleeding.  Defendant Weiner noted that the MRI of the brain was “unremarkable.” 
189. The documented indication for the shoulder MRI was “pain status post injury” but 
Weiner did not document the location of the pain or explain why D.W. would need a shoulder 
MRI.  That indication is also contrary to the hospital records of the diagnosis following the alleged 
accident. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 33 of 93 PageID #: 33 
34 
190. On January 5, 2018, Nexray purportedly took MRIs of D.W.’s right knee and hip.  
Weiner documented the indication for these services as “[p]ain status post injury.”  There were no 
indications for knee or hip MRIs at this time.  Nexray billed American Transit for these services. 
which were medically unnecessary. 
191. On January 17, 2018, Nexray purportedly took MRIs of D.W.’s lumbar and cervical 
spine MRIs.  The documented indication for the MRIs was “pain, MVA” but Weiner did not 
document the location of the purported pain.   Nexray billed American Transit for these services. 
which were medically unnecessary. 
192. Weiner documented “L4-L5 disc bulging,” for the purpose of subjecting D.W.  to 
further unnecessary medical services.   This diagnosis was false and made to generate billing to 
American Transit.  The MRIs allegedly performed on D.W. for which Nexray billed American 
Transit were not justified or medically ne cessary, as D.W. did not exhibit any symptoms (e.g. , 
fracture, impending neurologic compromise infection, or malignancy) that would require such 
diagnostic testing. 
193. As alleged herein, Nexray’s bills and the representations therein were false and 
fraudulent, in that the services for which it sought reimbursement were medically unnecessary 
and/or the result of overcharging for such services.  
b. Patient E.H. (claim no. 101359902) 
 
194. Patient E.H. was purportedly involved in an automobile accident as a pedestrian on 
or around December 10, 2017.   
195. He was taken by ambulance to the hospital, where he was examined and underwent 
diagnostic testing.  The hospital performed X-rays on his knees and shoulder.  No fracture or 
instability was noted. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 34 of 93 PageID #: 34 
35 
196. E.H. was admitted to the hospital, was treated with medication, provided a cane and 
an arm sling, and was subsequently released home the following day. 
197. Three days later, on December 14, 2017, Rutland purportedly evaluated E.H.  As a 
result of the initial evaluation, Rutland recorded non-specific neurological findings.  Despite this, 
Rutland recorded that E.H. should undergo “a course of physical therapy treatments,” as well as 
MRI testing, chiropractic care, and acupuncture.  This was unnecessary. 
198. On December 28, 2017, Rutland purportedly conducted initial chiropractic physical 
examination of E.H.  D espite no concerning orthopedic signs warranting additional treatment, 
Rutland recommended E.H. attend chiropractic treatment 3-4 times per week and receive monthly 
re-evaluations.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
199. On January 9, 2018, Weiner purportedly conducted MRI of E.H.’s left knee, which 
was unnecessary.  Moy was the referring physician.  The documented indication for this MRI was 
“[p]ain status post injury” but, Weiner did not indicate the location of the purported pain.  Nexray 
billed American Transit for this MRI, which was medically unnecessary.  
200. On January 17, 2018, Weiner purportedly conducted MRIs of E.H.’s right knee and 
cervical spine , which were unnecessary .  Moy was the referring physician.  The documented 
indication for the right knee MRI was “[p]ain status post injury” but Weiner did not indicate the 
location of the purported pain.  The documented indication for the cervical spine MRI was “[p]ain 
following MVA” but, Weiner did not indicate the location of the purported pain.  Nexray billed 
American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
201. Rutland then billed American Transit for a follow-up visit with E.H. on January 31, 
2018.  Rutland and Moy recorded non-specific motor changes and no reflex or sensory exam.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 35 of 93 PageID #: 35 
36 
Despite no concerning findings, Rutland and Moy recommended ROM/MMT testing, physical 
capacity testing, outcome assessment testing, and physical therapy for E.H. 
202. On February 1, 2018, Weiner purportedly conducted an MRI of E.H.’s right 
shoulder.  The referring physician was Moy.  Weiner documented the indication as “[p]ain status 
post injury” but did not indicate the location of the purported pain.  Nexray billed American Transit 
for this MRI, which was medically unnecessary. 
203. On February 14, 2018 Moy purportedly conducted an electromyography study on 
E.H. Rutland billed American Transit for this electromyography st udy, which was medically 
unnecessary.  
204. On February 20, 2018, Rutland purportedly treated E.H. and billed American 
Transit for a chiropractic re-examination of E.H., which was medically unnecessary.  Despite no 
concerning orthopedic signs warranting additional treatment, Rutland recommended a three-week 
treatment plan and evaluation in four to six weeks. 
205. On February 26, 2018, Rutland purportedly conduced MMT (neck, shoulder, and 
knees) on E.H.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services , which were medically 
unnecessary. 
206. On March 13,  2018, Rutland purportedly treated E.H. and again billed American 
Transit for a follow-up visit with E.H.  Rutland recorded the same findings and recommendation 
as on January 31, 2018.  Despite reporting non -specific motor changes and no reflex or sensory 
exam, Rutland again recommended ROM/MMT testing, physical capacity testing, outcome 
assessment testing, and physical therapy. 
207. On April 10, 2018, American Transit was billed for Lidocaine Patches prescribed 
by a Rutland physician , which were medically unnecessary.  Rutland recorded that E.H. was on 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 36 of 93 PageID #: 36 
37 
“conservative care,” which is not consistent with use of this medication.  Furthermore, the injuries 
reported by E.H. would not require this type of medication. 
208. In total, as to purported treatment of E.H., Rutland billed American Transit 58 bills  
for 40 visits and Nexray billed American Transit 4 bills for 3 visits.   
209. Because the testing, treatment, medication, and services billed to American Transit 
by Rutland and Nexray were medically unnecessary, Rutland’s and Nexray’s bills for E.H. are 
false, and thus are not compensable under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
c. Patient S.S. (claim no. 1044824-01)  
 
210. Patient S.S. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident in November 2018.   
211. S.S. sustained no lacera tions or loss of consciousness.  S.S. was taken from the 
scene of the alleged accident to the emergency room where x-rays of both her shoulders and both 
knees were taken.  These x-rays did not indicate any fractures.  S.S. was discharged the same day 
and with instructions to rest.   
212. S.S. presented to the ER again approximately six days after her alleged accident 
because of purported pain in her knees.  X-rays were performed on both knees, but the x-rays did 
not indicate any fractures .  An x -ray was also taken  of S.S.’s left shoulder.  The x-rays did not 
indicate any fractures or injuries. 
213. Moy purportedly examined S.S. on November 29, 2018.  Rutland billed American 
Transit for this evaluation.  Moy recommended MRIs and x-rays even though S.S. did not exhibit 
any symptoms warranting such diagnostic testing.   
214. On November 9, 2018, Nexray purportedly performed MRIs of S.S.’s left and right 
knees.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 37 of 93 PageID #: 37 
38 
215. On November 9, 2018 , Nexray purportedly performed on SS MRIs of S.S.’s  left 
and right shoulders.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
216. Moy subsequently referred S.S. for additional MRIs.   
217. On December 17, 2018, Nexray purportedly conducted four MRIs on S.S.’s  
cervical spine, a right hand, and right and left hip on December 17, 2018.  Nexray billed American 
Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
218. On December 26, 2018, Nexray purportedly conducted two MRIs on S.S.’s right 
and left hip.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
219. Moy purportedly treated S.S. and billed American Transit for a follow up 
evaluation with S.S.  
220. On January 3, 2019, Rutland purportedly conducted on S.S. ROM testing, outcome 
assessment testing, and physical capacity testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, 
which was medically unnecessary. 
221. On January 4, 2019, Nexray purportedly conducted  two MRIs on S.S.’s cervical 
and lumbar spine on January 4, 2019.  Nexray billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
222. On March 1, 2019, Nexray performed an MRI of S.S.’s right hand.  Nexray billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.   
223. In total, Nexray purportedly conducted 13 MRIs on various parts of S.S.’s body, 
even though none of these MRI’s were medically necessary  and used solely to generate billing 
from American Transit. 
224. Because the services billed to American Trans it by Rutland and Nexray were 
medically unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 38 of 93 PageID #: 38 
39 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for S.S. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
d. Patient P.A. (claim no. 1043121-02) 
 
225. Patient P.A. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on November 7, 
2018.   
226. Because the alleged accident was low -impact, P.A. did not present to the hospital 
for evaluation .  There is  no indication in any medical reco rd that P.A. had any fracture or 
instability. 
227. Moy purportedly evaluated P.A. on November 19, 2018 .  Despite the lack of any 
indication of injury, Rutland and Moy referred P.A. to Nexray for cervical and lumbar spine MRIs.  
Moy also referred P.A. for acupuncture services, despite the lack of any indication that acupuncture 
services were appropriate or necessary for P.A.’s treatment.  
228. On November 12, 2018, Rutland purportedly provided chiropractic services to P.A.  
Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
229. On November 13, 2018 and January 22, 2019, Rutland purportedly conducted on 
MMT on P.A.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
230. On November 15, 2018 and January 23, 2019, Rutland purportedly conducted on 
ROM testing on P.A.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
231. On November 19, 2018 , Rutland purportedly treated P.A. and billed American 
Transit an initial examination at which time Moy prescribed a course of  physical therapy 
treatments for P.A.   
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 39 of 93 PageID #: 39 
40 
232. On November 19, 2018 , Rutland also purportedly treated P.A. for electrical 
stimulation on P.A.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing tests, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
233. On November 20, 2018, Rutland purportedly conducted on performance testing on 
P.A.    Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.   
234. On December 12, 2018 , Rutland also purportedly performed outcome assessment 
testing on P.A.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
235. On December 12, 2018, based on Rutland’s referrals, P.A. was also provided with 
additional acupuncture services .  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
236. Rutland and Moy referred P.A. for cervical and lumbar spine MRIs. On December 
17, 2018, Nexray purportedly performed an MRI  on P.A.’s cervical and lumbar spine.  Weiner 
documented the indication for these MRIs as “[Pain status post injury].”  Weiner did not indicate 
where P.A. experienced this alleged pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which 
were medically unnecessary. 
237. On December 17, 2018 , Nexray purportedly performed x-rays of P.A.’s cervical 
spine, lumbar spine, and thoracic spine.  There was no indication that P.A. had any fractures in his 
cervical spine, lumbar spine, or thoracic spine.  Nexray billed American Transit for this imaging, 
which was medically unnecessary. 
238. On January 10, 2019 , Rutland purportedly performed on P.A. electromyography  
and nerve conduction velocity testing.  Rutl and billed American Transit for these MRIs, which 
were medically unnecessary. 
239. On January 17, 2019, Nexray purportedly performed on P.A. an MRI and x-ray of 
P.A.’s hip.  Nexray billed American Transit for this imaging, which were medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 40 of 93 PageID #: 40 
41 
240. On January 17, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed outcome assessment testing 
on P.A.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
241. On January 22, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed MMT on P.A.  Rutland billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
242. On January 23, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed on ROM testing on P.A. for 
the cervical and lumbar spine.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
243. Moy referred P.A. for additional MRIs.   On January 28, 2019, Nexray purportedly 
provided P.A. an MRI and x-ray of P.A.’s left hip and billed American Transit for those services.  
The same imaging was taken just days before so there would have been no reason to subject P.A. 
to further left hip imaging.  Nexray billed American Transit for this imaging, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
244. On January 29, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed performance testing on P.A. 
Rutland billed American Transit for this imaging, which was medically unnecessary. 
245. On February 28, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed outcome assessment testing 
on PA.  Rutland did not indicate in its notes what this additional testing would contribute to P.A.’s 
course of treatment.  Rutland billed Amer ican Transit for this imaging, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
246. On August 8, 2019 , Rutland purportedly performed ROM testing on P.A.  of the 
lumbar spine.  Rutland billed American Transit for this service, which was medically unnecessary. 
247. On August 22, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed on P.A. performance testing.  
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
248. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 41 of 93 PageID #: 41 
42 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for P.A. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
e. Patient A.C. (claim no. 1028221-01) 
 
249. Patient A.C. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on May 10, 2018.   
250. A.C. was taken to the hospital, given unspecified pain medication, and released the 
same day. 
251. Rutland evaluated A.C. on May 14, 2018 and referred A.C.  to Nexray for cervical 
spine and thoracic spine MRIs.  A.C. was also referred to physical therapy treatment 3-4 times per 
week, chiropractic treatment, and acupuncture.  
252. On June 5, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. ROM testing (cervical 
spine and thoracic spine).  The results of these tests were not utilized in the treatment plan for A.C.  
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
253. On June 8, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. MMT (neck extension 
and trunk e xtension).  The results of these tests were not utilized in the treatment plan for A.C.   
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
254. On June 28, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. needle 
electromyography (upper and lower extremities), nerve conduction studies, and an H-reflex study.  
The result of these tests were not utilized in the treatment plan for A.C.  Rutland billed American 
Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
255. On June 8, 2018, Weiner performed MRIs of A.C.’s cervical spine and thoracic 
spine.   
256. On June 22, 2018, Weiner performed an MRI of A.C.’s lumbar spine on June 22, 
2018.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 42 of 93 PageID #: 42 
43 
257. The documented indication for these MRIs was “[p]ain status post injury” but 
Weiner did not indicate the location of the alleged pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for these 
MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
258. On June 15, 2018 , July 13, 2018, and August 24, 2018, Rutland purportedly 
performed on A.C. outcome assessment testing.   Rutland billed American Transit for these tests, 
which were medically unnecessary. 
259. On July 6, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. ROM testing (cervical 
spine and lumbar spine) .  Rutland billed American Transit for these tests, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
260. On July 20, 2018 and August 31, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. 
performance testing .  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
261. On August 28, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on A.C. MMT (neck 
extension, trunk extension, and shoulder extension) .  Rutland billed American Transit for these 
tests, which were medically unnecessary. 
262. Moy referred A.C. for a right shoulder MRI and on July 24, 2018, Weiner 
performed an unnecessary right shoulder MRI on A.C.  The docu mented indication for the MRI 
was “[p]ain status post injury” but Weiner did not indicate the location of the alleged pain. 
263. On or about August 11, 2018, A.C. underwent a treatment by Dr. Andrew J. Dowd, 
who was convicted in December 2018 for mail fraud, wi re fraud, conspiracy to commit mail and 
wire fraud in connection with, among other things, his performance of hundreds of medically 
unnecessary surgeries. 
264. Rutland submitted at least 68 bills to American Transit for A.C.’s treatment and 
Nexray submitted four bills. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 43 of 93 PageID #: 43 
44 
265. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for A.C. are false and are not c ompensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
f. Patient T.C. (claim no. 100980102)  
 
266. Patient T.C. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on October 26, 
2017.   
267. T.C. was taken to the hospital where x -rays of her cervical spine, thoracic spine, 
and lumbar spine were taken as well as a CT scan of her head. 
268. Moy evaluated T.C. on November 2, 2017 and referred T.C. to Nexray for cervical 
spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, left shoulder, and left and right knee MRIs, despite the lack of 
any indication warranting such early diagnostic testing.   
269. On November 2, 6, 14, and 17, 2017, Rutland purportedly provided T.C. with 
physical therapy treatment, which included four therapeutic massages and four electrical 
stimulation sessions.  Rutland billed American Tr ansit for this treatment, which was medically 
unnecessary.   
270. On December 7, 2017, Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. M MT (neck 
extension, trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension).  Rutland billed American 
Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
271. On December 14, 2017 , Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. performance 
testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
272. On January 30, 2018, Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. outcome assessment 
testing.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for T.C.  Rutland billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 44 of 93 PageID #: 44 
45 
273. On February 21, 2018 , Moy performed on T.C. needle electromyograph y (upper 
and lower extremities), nerve conduction studies, and an H-reflex study.  The results of these tests 
were not utilized in T.C.’s treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
274. On February  12, 2018, Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. ROM testing 
(cervical spine, lumbar spine, shoulder extension, and knee extension).  The results of these tests 
were not utilized in T.C.’s treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
275. On February 15, 2018, Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. MMT (neck 
extension, trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension).  The results of these tests 
were not utilized in T.C.’s treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
276. On March 13, 2018 and May 7, 2018, Rutland purportedly conducted on T.C. 
outcome assessment testing.  The results of these tests were not utilized in T.C.’s treatment plan .  
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
277. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for T.C. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
g. Patient D.L. (claim no. 1043632-03)  
 
278. Patient D.L. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on November 7, 
2018.  D.L. did not go to the hospital. 
279. Rutland evaluated D.L. the next day and noted that D.L. had a “total” impairment 
and referred D.L. to a psychotherapist, chiropractor, and an acupuncturist.  Rutland also referred 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 45 of 93 PageID #: 45 
46 
D.L. for MRIs of t his brain cervical spine, lumbar spine, and left knee even though there was no 
need for early diagnostic testing.   
280. On November 8, 2018, Rutland purportedly provided to D.L. physical therapy and 
chiropractic treatment.  Rutland billed American Transit for this treatment, which was medically 
unnecessary.   
281. On or about November 8, 2018, Weiner performed MRIs of D.L.’s cervical spine, 
lumbar spine, brain, left shoulder, and left knee and took x-rays of D.L.’s cervical spine and lumbar 
spine.  Nexray billed American Transit for this imaging, which was medically unnecessary. 
282. On November 15, 2018 and December 21, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed 
MMT (neck extension, trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension) .  The results of 
these services were never utilized in the treatment plan for D.L.  Rutland billed American Transit 
for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
283. On November 19, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on D.L. performance 
testing.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for D.L.  Rutland billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
284. On December 12, 2018, Rutland purportedly performed on D.L. outcome 
assessment testing.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for D.L.  
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
285. On December 6, 2018, December 7, 2018, December 12, 2018, December 13, 2018, 
December 14, 2018, and December 17, 2018, Rutland purportedly provided to D.L. chiropractic 
treatment.   Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
286. Moy referred D.L. to Nexray for brain and shoulder MRIs, even though there was 
no indication that MRIs were necessary for D.L.’s treatment.   
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 46 of 93 PageID #: 46 
47 
287. On December 21, 2018, Weiner purportedly performed MRIs of D.L.’s brain  and 
left shoulder.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
288. Moy referred D.L. for cervical spine and lumbar spine MRIs despite the lack of any 
indication that MRIs were necessary for D.L.’s treatment. 
289. On January 4, 2019, Weiner purportedly performed MRIs of D.L.’s cervical spine 
and lumbar spine.  The documented indication for these MRIs was “[p]ain status post injury” but 
Weiner did not indicate the location of the alleged pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for these 
MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
290. On January 14, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed on D.L. ROM testing 
(right/left knee, cervical spine, lumbar spine, and shoulder extension) .  The results of these tests 
were not utilized in the treatment plan for D.L.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, 
which were medically unnecessary. 
291. On January 4, 2019, Weiner  purportedly took x-rays of D.L.’s cervical spine and 
lumbar spine.  The documented indication of these two x -rays was “[p]ain status post injury” but 
Weiner did not indicate the location of the alleged pain.  These x -rays were unnecessary as there 
was no indication that D.L. had a fracture.  Nexray billed American Transit for these x-rays, which 
were medically unnecessary. 
292. On January 9, 2019, Moy purportedly performed needle electromyography, nerve 
conduction studies (upper and lower extremities), and an H -reflex study on D.L .  The results of 
these tests were not utilized in D.L.’s treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for these 
tests, which were medically unnecessary. 
293. Moy referred D.L. to Nexray for an MRI of his left knee.  On February 22, 2019, 
Weiner purportedly performed an MRI of D.L.’s left knee.   Nexray billed American Transit for 
this MRI, which was medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 47 of 93 PageID #: 47 
48 
294. Rutland submitted at least 42 bills to American Transit for its purported treatment 
of D.L. and Nexray submitted seven bills. 
295. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person w ho is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for D.L are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
h. Patient A.W. (claim no. 10717041)  
 
296. Patient A.W. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on October 29, 
2019. 
297. Moy evaluated A.W. the next day.  Moy noted that A.W. had a “total” disability 
and that she was “not fit for duty.”   
298. Moy referred A.W. to a psychotherapist, chiropractor, and acupuncturist and  for 
MRIs of her cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and the left shoulder.   
299. On October 31, 2019 , Rutland purportedly conducted on A.W. MMT (neck 
extension, trunk extension, and shoulder extension).  Rutland billed American Transit for  these 
services, which were medically unnecessary. 
300. On N ovember 5, 2019 , Rutland purportedly conducted  on A.W . performance 
testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
301. On November 12, 2019,  Rutland purportedly conducted  on A.W. ROM testing 
(cervical spine, lumba r spine, and shoulder extension).  The results of these tests were never 
utilized in the treatment plan for A.W.  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which 
were medically unnecessary. 
302. On November 20, 2019, a fter Moy referred A.W. to Nexray  for MRIs, Nexray 
purportedly performed MRIs on A.W. of the cervical and lumbar spine . Weiner documented the 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 48 of 93 PageID #: 48 
49 
indication as “pain status post injury,” but Weiner did not indicate the location of the pain.  Nexray 
falsely recorded that there was “straightenin g of the physiologic lordosis consistent with pain 
and/or spasm.”  Nexray also false ly recorded that A.W. had disc herniation.   Nexray billed 
American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
303. On November 27, 2019, Nexray purportedly perfor med an MRI on A.W.’s left 
shoulder.  The documented indication was “pain status post injury” but Weiner did not indicate 
the location of the pain.   Nexray billed American Transit for  this MRI, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
304. On November 27, 2019, Nexray p urportedly performed on A.W. x -rays of the 
cervical and lumbar spine.  The documented indication was “pain status post injury” but Weiner 
did not indicate the location of the pain.  Weiner documented that there was “foraminal narrowing 
L5-S1” and noted tha t this “correlate[d] clinically and neurologically and consider MRI as 
appropriate.”  Nexray billed American Transit for these x-rays, which were medically unnecessary. 
305. On December 2, 2019 , Rutland purportedly performed on A.W. outcome 
assessment testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for  this testing, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
306. On December 4, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed  on A.W. needle 
electromyography and nerve conduction studies.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, 
which was medically unnecessary. 
307. On December 6, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed  on A.W. performance 
testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.   
308. On December 11, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed  on A.W. outcome 
assessment testing.   Rutland billed American Transit for  this testing, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 49 of 93 PageID #: 49 
50 
309. On December 26, 201 9, Rutland purportedly performed  on A.W. ROM testing 
(cervical and lumbar spine and shoulder extension).  The results of these tests were never utilized 
in the treatment plan for A.W.  Rutland billed American Transit for  this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
310. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for A.W. are false and are not compensa ble under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
i. Patient R.S. (claim no. 1087141) 
 
311. Patient R.S. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on August 19, 2020.   
312. The same day, R.S. was taken to the hospital where she received a CT scan of her 
head.   
313. On August 27, 2020, Rutland evaluated R.S. and referred her to Nexray for MRIs 
of her cervical spine, lumbar spine, left shoulder, right shoulder, and left knee.   
314. On August 27, 2020, August 28, 2020, September 1, 2020, September 3, 2020, 
September 4, 2020, September 9, 2020, and September 10, 2020, Rutland provided unnecessary 
physical therapy treatment to R.S., including at least seven therapeutic massages and seven 
electrical stimulation sessions.  Rutland billed American Transit for these treatments, all of which 
were medically unnecessary. 
315. On September 3, 2020, Rutland purportedly conducted MMT (neck extension, 
trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension) on R.S.  The results of these tests were 
never utilized in the treatment plan for R.S.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 50 of 93 PageID #: 50 
51 
316. On September 24, 2020, Rutland purportedly conducted ROM testing (right/lef t 
knee, cervical spine, lumbar spine, and shoulder extension) on R.S.  The results of these tests were 
never utilized in the treatment plan for R.S.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
317. On September 17, 2020 , Rutland purportedly conducted performance testing on 
R.S.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for R.S.   Rutland billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
318. Rutland referred R.S. to Nexray for cervical spine, lumbar spine, and right shoulder 
MRIs.  On September 30, 2020, Weiner performed MRIs of R.S.’s  cervical spine, lumbar spine, 
and right shoulder.  The documented indication was “[p]ain status post injury,” but Weiner did not 
indicate the location of the alleged pain .  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which 
were medically unnecessary. 
319. Rutland also referred R.S. to Nexray for an MRI of her right knee.  On October 5, 
2020, Weiner performed an MRI of R.S.’s right knee.  The documented indication again was 
“[p]ain status post injury ,” but Weiner did not indicate the location of the alleged pain.  Nexray 
billed American Transit this MRI, which was medically unnecessary. 
320. On October 14, 2020, Moy conducted needle electromyography (upper and lower 
extremities) and motor and sensory nerve conduction on R.S.  The results of these tests were not 
utilized in R.S.’s treatment plan.   Rutland billed American Transit for these tests, which were 
medically unnecessary. 
321. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for R.S. are false and are not compensable unde r 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 51 of 93 PageID #: 51 
52 
j. Patient I.V. (claim no. 1084559)  
 
322. Patient I.V. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on May 23, 2020.   
323. I.V. was taken to the hospital where she had an MRI and x-ray of her left knee.  She 
was released the same day. 
324. Rutland evaluated I.V. on June 11, 2020  and referred I.V. to Nexray for MRIs of 
her lumbar spine and left knee.   
325. On June 11, 2020 and on June 16, 2020, June 17, 2020, June 24, 2020, and June 
25, 2020, Rutland also purportedly provided I.V. with physical therapy treatment, which included 
five therapeutic massages and five electrical stimulation sessions.  Rutland billed American Transit 
for these services, which were medically unnecessary.  
326. On June 17, 2020, June 24, 2020, and June 25, 2020, Rutland purportedly provided 
I.V. with chiropractic treatment.  There is no indication these treatments were necessary for I.V.’s 
treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for these treatments, which were medically 
unnecessary.   
327. Pursuant to Rutland’s referral, on June 23, 2020, Nexray purportedly performed on 
I.V. a lumbar spine MRI.  The documented indication for the MRI was “[p]ain status post injury” 
but Nexray did not indicate the location of the alleged pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for 
this MRI, which was medically unnecessary.   
328. The same day, Weiner purportedly performed on I.V. an MRI of the left knee.  The 
documented indication for this MRI was “[p]ain status post injury” but Weiner did not indicate the 
location of the pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for this MRI, which was medically 
unnecessary.  
329. On June 25, 2020 and August 27, 2020 , Rutland purportedly performed on I.V. 
MMT (neck, trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension ).  The results of the MMT 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 52 of 93 PageID #: 52 
53 
were not used in I.V.’s treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
330. On July 8, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed on I.V. ROM testing (right/left 
knee, cervical spine, and shoulder  extension).  The results of the ROM were not used in I.V.’s 
treatment plan.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
331. On July 16, 2020 and September 10, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed on I.V. 
performance testing.  The results of the performance testing were not used in I.V.’s treatment plan.  
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
332. On June 29, 2020, July 1, 2020, July 8, 2020, July 9, 2020, July 13, 2020, July 14, 
2020, July 16, 2020, August 5, 2020, August 10, 2020, August 11, 2020, August 13, 2020, August 
17, 2020, September 1, 2020, September 2, 2020, September 3, 2020, September 8, 2020, 
September 10, 2020, September 11, 2020, October 2, 2020, October 6, 2020, Octo ber 7, 2020, 
October 8, 2020, October 14, 2020, October 15, 2020, October 17, 2020, November 4, 2020, 
November 5, 2020, November 6, 2020, November 11, 2020, November 12, 2020, and November 
13, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed chiropractic treatment on I.V.  Rutland billed American 
Transit for these treatments, which were medically unnecessary. 
333. On July 29, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed on I.V. needle electromyography, 
nerve conduction studies, and  an H-Reflex study.  The results of these tests were never used by 
Rutland or any other medical provider in the treatment plan for I.V.  Rutland billed American 
Transit for these tests, which were medically unnecessary. 
334. On September 3, 2020, Rutland purportedly conducted on I.V. ROM testing 
(right/left knee and lumbar spine).  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 53 of 93 PageID #: 53 
54 
335. On September 17, 2020, Rutland purportedly conducted on I.V. MMT (ankle, neck 
extension, trunk extension, and knee extension).  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, 
which was medically unnecessary. 
336. On September 30, 2020 , Rutland purportedly conducted on I.V.  outcome 
assessment testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically 
unnecessary. 
337. On October 2, 2020, Rutland purportedly conducted on I.V. MMT (trunk and knee).    
Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
338. Rutland also purportedly conducted numerous follow up evaluations.   Rutland 
billed American Transit for these evaluations, which were medically unnecessary 
339. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for I.V. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
k. Patient L.J. (claim no. 1068535-02) 
 
340. Patient L.J. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on or around 
September 22, 2019.   
341. L.J. was a back seat passenger and wore a seatbelt.   
342. L.J. did not present to the emergency room after the alleged accident. 
343. Rutland billed American Transit for an examination of L.J. on October 2, 2019. 
344. Rutland also referred L.J. for MRIs of the cervical spine, lumbar spine, left 
shoulder, and right knee, which were medically unnecessary. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 54 of 93 PageID #: 54 
55 
345. Between October 2, 2019 and October 16, 2019, Rutland purportedly provided L.J. 
with physical therapy services and billed American Transit for them.  This therapy was medically 
unnecessary. 
346. Between October 3, 2019 and October 15, 2019, Rutland purportedly provided L.J. 
with chiropractic services.  These services were medically unnecessary. 
347. On October 4, 2019, Rutland purportedly provided performance testing on L.J.  
This testing was medically unnecessary and the results of this test were never used in L.J.’s 
treatment plan.   
348. On October 9, 2019, Rutland purportedly provided MMT s for L.J.   This test was 
medically unnecessary and the results of this test were never used in L.J.’s treatment plan.  Rutland 
billed American Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
349. On October 11, 2019, Nexray purportedly provided L.J. with MRIs of the left 
shoulder and right knee.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs , which were medically 
unnecessary. 
350. On October 15, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed ROM testing on L.J for the 
right/left knee, cervical and lumbar spine, and for shoulder extension.   Rutland billed American 
Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
351. On October 30, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed needle electromyography 
(lower and upper extremities), nerve conduction studies, and H re flex study (lower) on L.J. on 
October 30, 2019.   Rutland billed American transit for these tests, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
352. On November 5, 2019 and December 12, 2019, Rutland purportedly performed 
performance testing on L.J.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing,  which was medically 
unnecessary.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for L.J. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 55 of 93 PageID #: 55 
56 
353. On November 7, 2019, December 9, 2019, and January 20, 2020 , Rutland 
purportedly performed outcome assessment testi ng on L.J.  Rutland billed American Transit for 
this testing, which was medically unnecessary.   The results of these tests were never utilized in 
the treatment plan for L.J. 
354. On November 12, 2019, December 24, 2019, and January 23, 2020 , Rutland 
purportedly performed on L.J. ROM testing (right/left knee, cervical and lumbar spine, and 
shoulder extension).  Rutland billed American Transit for these services, which were medically 
unnecessary. 
355. On November 19, 2019 and December 18, 2019 , Rutland purpo rtedly performed 
on L.J. MMT (neck extension, trunk extension, shoulder extension, and knee extension).  Rutland 
billed American Transit for these services, which were medically unnecessary. 
356. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Ne xray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies owned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for L.J. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
l. Patient G.R. (claim no. 1084692-02)  
 
357. Patient G.R. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on May 29, 2020.   
358. G.R. was a passenger and was taken to the hospital.   There is no indication in any 
medical record that G.R. had any fractures.   
359. The same day, May 29, 2020, Rutland evaluated G.R. and referred him to Nexray 
for MRIs of the brain, left shoulder, and right knee MRIs.  Rutland billed American Transit for a 
consultation with G.R. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 56 of 93 PageID #: 56 
57 
360. On June 15, 2020 and August 19, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed on G.R. 
MMT (neck extension, trunk extension, shoulder extension  and knee extension).  Rutland billed 
American Transit for these tests, which were medically unnecessary. 
361. On June 23, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed on G.R. performance testing and 
ROM testing (right/left knee, cervical and lumbar spine, and shoulder extension ).  Rutland billed 
American Transit for these tests, which were medically unnecessary. 
362. On August 24, 2020, Rutland purportedly performed ROM testing on G.R.  Rutland 
billed American Transit for this test, which was medically unnecessary. 
363. As a result of Rutland’s referrals to Nexray, on  June 29, 2020, July 27, 2020, and 
July 28, 2020, Nexray purportedly performed on G.R. MR Is of the left shoulder, right knee, and 
brain.  Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which were medically unnecessary. 
364. On August 26, 2020 , Rutland purportedly conducted outcome assessment testing 
on G.R.   Nexray billed Ame rican Transit for this test, which was medically unnecessary.  The 
results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment plan for G.R. 
365. Moy referred G.R. to Nexray for additional MRIs.  On September 2, 2020, Nexray 
purportedly provided G.R. an MRI of the cervical spine and lumbar spine.  Nexray billed American 
Transit for this MRI, which was medically unnecessary. 
366. On October 7, 2020 , Rutland purported performed on G.R needle 
electromyography (lower and upper extremities), motor and sensory nerve conduc tion, and 
neuromuscular junction studies.   Rutland billed American Transit for this test, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
367. On November 11, 2020 , Rutland purportedly performed outcome assessment 
testing on G.R.  Rutland billed American Transit for this test ing, which was medically 
unnecessary.  
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 57 of 93 PageID #: 57 
58 
368. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland were medical 
unnecessary, Rutland’s bills for G.R. are false and are not compensable under New York’s No-
Fault laws. 
m. Patient E.J. (claim no. 680163-04)  
 
369. Patient E.J. was allegedly involved in a motor vehicle accident on June 16, 2017 as 
a backseat passenger.  Following the accident, E.J.  was taken to the hospital, where E.J. received 
C.T. Scans.   
370. On July 11, 2017, nearly a month later, Rutland purportedly conducted an initial 
examination on E.J.  Rutland billed American Transit for the initial examination.  Rutland also 
referred E.J. to Nexray for MRs of the cervical spine, lumbar spine, and left and right shoulder. 
371. On August 3, 2017, Rutland purportedly performed on E.J. MMT (trunk extension, 
neck extension, and shoulder extension).  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which 
was medically unnecessary. 
372. Per Rutland’s referral, on August 16, 2017, Nexray purportedly performed MRI’s 
on E.J. on the left and right shoulder .  The documented indication was “pain status post injury ” 
but there was no indication of the location of the pain.  Nexray billed American Transit for these 
MRIs, which were medically unnecessary.   
373. On August 17, 2017, Nexray purportedly performed MRI s on E.J. on the cervical 
spine and lumbar spine.  The documented indication was “pain status post injury” but there was 
no indication of the location of the pain.   Nexray billed American Transit for these MRIs, which 
were medically unnecessary.   
374. On August 17, 2017, Rutland purportedly performed outcome assessment testing 
on E.J.   The results of this tests was never utilized in the treatment plan for E.J.  Rutland  billed 
American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary.   
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 58 of 93 PageID #: 58 
59 
375. On August 24, 2017, Rutland purportedly performed on E.J. needle 
electromyography (upper and lower extremities), nerve conduction studies, and an H reflex study.  
Rutland billed American Transit for these studies, which were medically unnecessary.   
376. On November 2, 2017 , Rutland purportedly performed on E.J. ROM testing 
(cervical spine and  lumbar spine).  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was 
medically unnecessary. 
377. On November 16, 2017 and March 6, 2018 , purportedly performed on E.J. MMT 
(trunk extension, neck extension, and shoulder extension ).  Rutland  billed American Transit for 
this testing, which was medically unnecessary.  
378. On November 30, 2017 Rutland purportedly performed on E.J. performance 
testing.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
379. On December 7, 2017 and January 10, 2018 , Rutland purportedly performed on 
E.J. outcome assessment testing.  The results of these tests were never utilized in the treatment 
plan for E.J.  Rutland billed American Transit for this testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
380. On December 12, 2017 , Rutland purportedly performed on E.J.  ROM testing 
(shoulder extension, cervical spine and lumbar spine).  Rutland billed American Transit for this 
testing, which was medically unnecessary. 
381. Because the services billed to American Transit by Rutland and Nexray were 
medical unnecessary, and presented by companies o wned or controlled by a person who is not a 
licensed physician, Rutland and Nexray’s bills for G.R. are false and are not compensable under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
E. American Transit’s Justifiable Reliance 
382. Each bill submitted to American Transit by Rutland  and Nexray was verified 
pursuant to Insurance Law § 403. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 59 of 93 PageID #: 59 
60 
383. Moy and Weiner, as duly licensed physicians, were legally and ethically obligated 
to act honestly and with integrity, and to act in accordance with all other aspects of their oath as 
licensed medical professionals. 
384. To induce American Transit to promptly pay Rutland’s and Nexray’s patient bills, 
the Defendants submitted (or caused to be submitted) to American Transit NF -3 forms certifying 
that Rutland and Nexray were eligible to be reimbursed under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
385. To induce American Transit to promptly pay the fraudulent charges for the medical 
evaluations, diagnostic testing, diagnostic medical imaging, and/or other treatment purportedly 
provided to patients of Rutland and Nexray, the Defendants hired attorneys to pursue collection of 
the fraudulent charges from American Transit, including the prosecution and defense of claims.   
386. These attorneys have routinely file d and continue to file  time-consuming and 
expensive lawsuits and arbitration matters against American Transit to collect a substantial part of 
the false claims alleged herein. As alleged in the indictment in the Criminal Action, Pierre selected 
attorneys to pursue the fraudulen t Nexray and Rutland bills they had presented to insurance 
companies. 
387. American Transit is under statutory and contractual obligations to promptly and 
fairly process claims within 30 days.  The facially valid documents submitted to American Transit 
in support of the charges at issue  (which have turned out to be fraudulent) , combined with the 
material misrepresentations described above, were designed to and did cause American Transit to 
justifiably rely on them when determining to pay them. 
388. The Defendants concealed from American Transit the truth regarding Rutland and 
Nexray’s reimbursement eligibility under New York law, purporting that such billed were eligible 
for payment when, in fact, they were not  as the bills we re presented by companies owned or 
controlled by a person who is not a licensed physician. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 60 of 93 PageID #: 60 
61 
389. In reliance on these misrepre sentations, American Transit paid money to Rutland 
and Nexray to satisfy the bills Defendants presented to its detriment.  
390. American Transit would not have paid these monies had the Defendants provided 
true and accurate information about the Defendants’ reim bursement eligibility under New York 
law, including the lack of necessity of the services provided. 
391. American Transit has paid in excess of $ 3,240,000.00 to Nexray, Rut land and 
others in reasonable reliance on the Defendants’ false medical documentation and false 
representations contained therein regarding Rutland and Nexray’s eligibility for reimbursement 
under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
F. Specific Allegations of Mail Fraud Racketeering Activity  
392. Pierre, Moy, Weiner, and others working through and with Rutland and Ne xray, 
created, prepared, and submitted (or caused to be created, prepared, and submitted) false medical 
documentation to American Transit and intentionally violated the laws of the United States by 
devising and intending to devise schemes to defraud and ob tain money and property by means of 
false and fraudulent pretenses in representations, and in placing or causing to be placed, in a post 
office and/or authorized depository for mail matter, things to be sent and delivered by the United 
States Postal Service in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341 (mail fraud) for the purpose of executing, 
and attempting, such fraudulent schemes. 
393. Unless otherwise pled to the contrary, all documents, notes, reports, health 
insurance claim forms, medical diagnoses, CPT code tally she ets, referrals, letters, and requests 
for payment in connection with the insurance claims referenced throughout this pleading traveled 
through the U.S. Mail. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 61 of 93 PageID #: 61 
62 
394. Every automobile insurance claim detailed within involved at least one use of the 
U.S. Mail, including the mailing of, among other things, the notice of claim, initial policies, and 
insurance claim payments. 
i. The Rutland RICO Enterprise 
395. Through the course of their operating , management and use of the Rutland 
enterprise, Pierre (through MRC) Moy and their agents either (a) personally used the U.S. Mail to 
further their fraudulent scheme by causing false medical bills and records from Rutland to be 
mailed to American Transit and/or counsel for the claimants, or (b) acted with knowledge that the 
use of the U.S. Mail would follow in the ordinary course of Rutland’s business by sending NF-3s 
to American Transit. 
396. At all relevant times, Pierre (through MRC) and Moy caused Rutland to certify 
falsely that it was eligible to be reimbursed under New York’s No-Fault laws each time that 
Rutland mailed (or was caused to mail) a demand for payment (i.e., bill) to American Transit. 
397. Pierre’s operation, management, and/or control of Rutland combined with his 
unlawful receipt of Rutland’s fees and profits, rendered Rutland ineligible for No -Fault 
reimbursement under New York law. 
398. Because Pierre (a non -physician) unlawfully participated in the operation, 
management, and/or control of Rutland, Moy and Pierre purposely caused Rutland to make a 
material misrepresentation each and every time that Rutland mailed (or caused to mail) a document 
to American Transit claiming eligibility for reimbursement. 
399. Because (a) Pierre participated in the operation and control of Rutland, (b) Moy 
and Pierre purposely caused Rutland to seek No -Fault reimbursement from American Transit 
(even though Rutland was not lawfully entitled to such reimbursement), and (c) Rutland used the 
U.S. Mail to seek reimbursement, Moy and Pierre committed mail fraud. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 62 of 93 PageID #: 62 
63 
400. Rutland’s provision of unnecessary medical services to patients also rendered it 
ineligible to receive payment from American Transit under New York law.  
401. At all relevant times, Moy, Pierre and their agents working with them, knew that 
Rutland, MRC, Rutland’s billing companies, a patient, a claimant, an insurance carrier, patient’s 
attorney, another medical provide r, or American Transit would use the U.S. Mail in connection 
with each of the fraudulent claims, including issuing payments based upon documentation mailed 
by Rutland. 
402. American Transit estimates that the unlawful operation of the Rutland enterprise 
generated thousands of mailings. 
ii. The Nexray RICO Enterprise 
403. Through the course of their operating , management, and use  of the Nexray 
enterprise, Pierre (through MRC), Weiner, and their agents either (a) personally used the U.S. Mail 
to further their fraudulent sc heme by causing false medical bills and records from Nexray to be 
mailed to American Transit and/or counsel for the claimants, or (b) acted with knowledge that the 
use of the U.S. Mail would follow in the ordinary course of Nexray’s business  by sending NF-3s 
to American Transit. 
404. At all relevant times, Pierre (through MRC) and Weiner caused Nexray to certify 
that it was eligible to be reimbursed under New York’s No-Fault laws each time that Nexray mailed 
(or was caused to mail) a demand for payment (i.e., bill) to American Transit. 
405. Pierre’s operation, management, and/or control of Nexray combined with his 
unlawful receipt of Nexray’s fees and profits, rendered Nexray  ineligible for No -Fault 
reimbursement under New York law. 
406. Because Pierre (a non-physician) unlawfully participated in the operation, 
management, and/or control of Nexray, Weiner and Pierre purposely caused Nexray to make a 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 63 of 93 PageID #: 63 
64 
misrepresentation each and every time that Nexray mailed (or caused to mail) a document to 
American Transit claiming eligibility for reimbursement. 
407. In United States of America v. Anthony Rose, et al. , No. 19-cr-00789-PGG 
(S.D.N.Y.) (“United States v. Rose”) numerous individuals were indicted for paying bribes to 911 
operators, medical personnel, N ew York Police Department officers, and others in exchange for  
information regarding motor vehicle accident victims, who could be contacted and steered to 
medical providers.  As alleged in the indictment and evidenced in the filings in that case, Anthony 
Rose (“Rose”), who ran the scheme, set up a fully staffed call center in order to contact the patients 
and to steer them to a network of medical clinics (and lawyers) in New York and New Jersey.  
408. Government affidavits  unsealed years later in the case , include references to 
wiretaps detail ing the massive scope of the patient referral scheme, and identify numerous 
layperson controllers, including Pierre, and fraudulent clinic locations.  
409. The wiretaps showed that Pierre was communicating with another layperson, 
Nathaniel Coles ( “Coles”) in 2016 about the possibility of setting up additional medical clinics.  
The affidavit refers to Pierre as a “known player in the medical - mill business.” United States v. 
Rose, ECF 398 -4, Exhibit A at 821-822 (Affidavit of New York State Police Investigator Paul 
Schneeloch (“Schneeloch”), dated December 8, 2016).   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 64 of 93 PageID #: 64 
65 
 
 
 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 65 of 93 PageID #: 65 
66 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 66 of 93 PageID #: 66 
67 
 
410. On June 28, 2021, Coles pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to engage in a 
bribery scheme, and admitted to running an illegal medical clinic and engaging in unlawful 
referrals.   
411. The facts alleged showed that Pierre was also in personal contact with Rose.  See 
id. Exhibit A at 991.  Pierre paid Rose in exchange for Rose’s referral of patients to Pierre’s 
clinics. 
 
 
(Id. at 991.)   
 
412. As the Government has made clear in the Criminal Action, the fraudulent clinic 
locations include Rutland and Ne xray, and that Pierre was communicating with Weiner via text 
messages for years as well as other Nexray staff members. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 67 of 93 PageID #: 67 
68 
413. On January 16, 2024, Weiner pled guilty in the Criminal Action to one count of 
conspiracy to commit healthcare fraud and to defraud the United States, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 
§ 371.  As set forth in the Superseding Information, Weiner, together with “others known and 
unknown, willfully and knowingly . . . did execute and attempt to execute a scheme and artifice to 
defraud a health care benefit program, and to obtain, by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, 
representations, and promises, money and property owned by, and under the custody and control 
of a health care ben efit program in connection with the delivery of and payment for health care 
benefits, items and services.”  (Id. ¶ 2.)   
414. The Superseding Information alleges that Weiner made “materially false statements 
during Examinations under Oath . . . regarding Bradle y Pierre’s role and involvement in Nexray 
Medical Imaging.”  (Id. ¶ 4a.) 
415. Because (a) Pierre participated in the operation and control of Nexray, (b) Weiner 
and Pierre purposely caused Weiner to seek No-Fault reimbursement from American Transit (even 
though Nexray was not lawfully entitled to such reimbursement), and (c) Nexray used the U.S. 
Mail to seek reimbursement, Weiner, and Pierre committed mail fraud. 
416. Nexray’s provision of unnecessary medical services to patients also rendered it 
ineligible to receive payment from American Transit under New York law. 
417. At all relevant times, Weiner and Pierre knew that Nexray, MRC, Nexray’s billing 
companies, a patient, a claimant, an insurance carrier, patient’s attorney, another medical provider, 
or American Transit w ould use the U.S. Mail in connection with each of the fraudulent claims, 
including issuing payments based upon documentation mailed by Nexray. 
418. American Transit estimates that the unlawful operation of the Nexray enterprise 
generated thousands of mailings. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 68 of 93 PageID #: 68 
69 
G. Specific Allegations of Fraudulent Concealment and Representations Made 
to and Relied Upon by American Transit  
 
i. Fraudulent Concealment of Pierre’s Control of the Rutland 
Enterprise 
 
419.   Upon information and belief, Pierre and Moy agreed that Moy would register with 
the State of New York as Rutland’s sole officer, director, and shareholder. 
420. The documents created and filed with the State of New York forming Rutland and 
allowing it to do business deliberately omitted any reference to Pierre’s involvement with o r 
control over Moy or Rutland. 
421. The documents created and filed with the State of New York related to Rutland did 
not indicate to American Transit or the general public that Pierre or his companies, including MRC, 
in any way maintained a controlling interest in Rutland. 
422. Based on the representations contained in the documents filed with the State of New 
York on behalf of Rutland, American Transit—even acting with reasonable diligence—could not 
possibly have discovered the nature and extent of Pierre’s dominat ion and control over Moy and 
Rutland, and Moy and the other Defendants’ complicity in that domination and control. 
423. Pierre, Moy and the other Defendants’ purposeful concealment of Pierre’s 
controlling interest in Rutland allowed Pierre to unlawfully control Rutland undetected. 
424. At all relevant times during the operation of the Rutland enterprise, to induce 
American Transit to pay promptly charges for healthcare services billed by Rutland, Moy , and 
Pierre caused Rutland to falsely certify that it was, in all respects, eligible to be reimbursed under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
425. Moy attested (or caused the attestation) to the medical necessity of the services that 
he (or persons under his direction and control) allegedly performed in connection with the 
treatment and/or testing of Rutland patients. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 69 of 93 PageID #: 69 
70 
426. At all relevant times, Moy, as a duly licensed physician, was legally and ethically 
obligated to act honestly and with integrity. 
427. At all relevant times, Pierre and Moy actively concealed fro m American Transit 
facts regarding Rutland’s true ownership and control to prevent American Transit from 
discovering that Rutland was unlawfully incorporated, owned, and controlled by non -physicians, 
and therefore ineligible to bill for or collect No-Fault benefits. 
428. These facts, including  Pierre’s involvement in the direction and control of the 
treatment and/or testing of Rutland’s patients are not readily evident within the documents 
submitted to American Transit by these defendants and upon which American Transit in adjusting 
the claims and tendering payment in connection with each patient claim. 
429. Claims under New York’s No-Fault laws can only be submitted, and reimbursed 
for treatment that was provided in accord with all applicable New York State licensing  
requirements. 
430. Thus, every time that Pierre and Moy caused Rutland to submit No -Fault 
reimbursement demands to American Transit, Pierre and Moy necessarily certified that Rutland 
was eligible to be reimbursed under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
431. The full extent of Pierre’s and Moy’s fraudulent and unlawful acts relative to their 
control over the Rutland enterprise, including (a) Pierre’s involvement in the direction and control 
of the treatment of Rutland’s patients, (b) Pierre’s participation in the operation a nd control of 
Rutland, and (c) the unlawful channeling of Rutland’s professional proceeds to Pierre through  
phony arrangements that MRC maintained with Moy and Rutland, was not known to American 
Transit until shortly before it commenced this action. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 70 of 93 PageID #: 70 
71 
ii. Fraudulent Concealment of Pierre’s Unlawful Control of the 
Nexray Enterprise 
 
432. Upon information and belief, Pierre and Weiner agreed that Weiner would register 
with the State of New York as Nexray’s sole officer, director, and shareholder. 
433. The documents created and filed with the State of New York forming Nexray and 
allowing it to do business  deliberately omitted any reference to Pierre’s involvement with or 
control over Weiner or Nexray. 
434. The documents created and filed with the State of New York related to Nexray did 
not indicate to American Transit or the general public that Pierre or his companies, including MRC, 
in any way maintained a controlling interest in Nexray. 
435. Based on the representations contained in the documents filed with the State of New 
Yor on beh alf of Nexray, American Transit —even acting with reasonable diligence —could not 
possibly have discovered the nature and extent of Pierre’s domination and control over Weiner 
and Nexray and Weiner and the other Defendants’ complicity in that domination and control. 
436. Pierre, Weiner, and the other Defendants ’ purposeful concealment of Pierre’s 
controlling interest in Nexray allowed Pierre to unlawfully control Nexray undetected. 
437. At all relevant times during the operation of the Nexray enterprise, to induce 
American Transit to pay promptly charges for healthcare services billed by Nexray, Weiner and 
Pierre caused Rutland to falsely certify that it was, in all respects, eligible to be reimbursed under 
New York’s No-Fault laws. 
438. Moy attested (or caused the attestation) to the medical necessity of the services that 
he (or persons under his direction and control) allegedly performed in connection with the 
treatment of Nexray patients. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 71 of 93 PageID #: 71 
72 
439. Pierre and Weiner also c onspired to conceal the fact that Nexray was owned and 
controlled by Pierre in violation of New York law. 
440. At all relevant times, Weiner, as a duly licensed physician, was legally and ethically 
obligated to act honestly and with integrity. 
441. At all relevant times, Pierre and Weiner actively concealed from American Transit 
facts regarding Nexray’s true ownership and control to prevent American Transit from discovering 
that Nexray was unlawfully incorporated, owned, and controlled by non-physicians, and therefore 
ineligible to bill for or collect No-Fault benefits. 
442. These facts, including Pierre’s involvement in the direction and control of the 
treatment and/or testing of Nexray’s patients  are not readily evident within the documents 
submitted to American Transit by these defendants and upon which American Transit in adjusting 
the claims and tendering payment in connection with each patient claim. 
443. Claims under New York’s No-Fault laws can only be submitted, and reimbursed 
for treatment that was provided in accord with all applicable New York State licensing 
requirements. 
444. Thus, every time that Pierre and Weiner caused Nexray to submit No -Fault 
reimbursement demands to American Transit, Pierre and Weiner necessarily certified that Nexray 
was eligible to be reimbursed under New York’s No-Fault laws. 
445. The full extent of Pierre’s and Weiner’s fraudulent and unlawful acts relative to 
their control over the Nexray enterprise, including (a) Pierre’s involvement in the direction and 
control of the treatment of Nexray’s patients, (b) Pierre’s participation in the operation and control 
of Nexray, and (c) the unlawful channeling of Nexray’s professional proceeds to Pierre through  
phony arrangements that MRC maintained with Weiner and Nexray, was not known to American 
Transit until shortly before it commenced this action. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 72 of 93 PageID #: 72 
73 
H. The Use of Counsel in the Scheme to Defraud 
 
446. In order to perpetrate their fraudulent scheme on American Transit , Defendants 
worked in concert with attorneys registered to practice law in the State of New York  to collect 
amounts they alleged were due and owing under bills they had presented to American Transit for 
payment. 
447. As alleged in the indictment in the Criminal Action, Pierre  selected counsel to 
prosecute claims against insurance companies like American Transit to ensure they would be 
forced to pay the fraudulent bills.  Upon information and belief, Defendants well knew that given 
the high volume of claims that would be submitted, and the limited process in the no fault regime, 
they would be able to flood American Transit with invoices , threats of litigation and litigation to 
force it to pay. 
448. Therefore, to obtain payment from American Transit for Defendants’ fraudulent 
charges for the medical evaluations, diagnostic testing, diagnostic medical imaging, and/or other 
treatment purportedly provided to patients of Rutland and Nexray, the Defendants hired attorneys 
to pursue collection of the fraudulent charges from American Transit, including the prosecution 
and defense of claims.  These attorneys routinely file time-consuming and expensive lawsuits and 
arbitration matters against American Transit. 
449. For example,  the Law Office of Jason Tenenbaum, P.C. , its p rincipal, Jason 
Tenenbaum, an affiliated attorney, Roman Kravchenko , the Russel Friedman Law Group, LLP, 
among others (collectively, the “ No-Fault Attorneys”)  appeared on behalf of Rut land and/or 
Nexray, to prosecute dozens of actions against American Transit.   
450. Many of these lawsuits involve the No-Fault Attorneys  filing purported 
verifications on behalf of Rutland/Moy and Nexray/Weiner .  Even though Moy purportedly died 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 73 of 93 PageID #: 73 
74 
at sea more than a year ago,1 certain No-Fault Attorneys have signed verifications on behalf of 
Rutland, which is questionable, a s it does not account for how they could possibly obtain 
information about the cases from someone lost at sea .  Indeed, when recently challenged on the 
issue Attorney Kravchenko admitted to bringing actions against American Transit on behalf  of 
Rutland and Nexray without actually being engaged by them. 
451. The No-Fault Attorneys have attempted to confirm master arbitration awards 
pursuant to CPLR § 7510 on behalf of Defendants, and to obtain judgments with full knowledge 
that American Transit has already paid all or part of the arbitration award and, therefore, that there 
was no basis for a judgment or to enforce the later -obtained judgment.  Upon information and 
belief, the No-Fault Attorneys have pursued these claims solely to recover attorneys’ fees against 
American Transit, ignoring American Transit’s payments of judgments and refusing to provide it 
with partial satisfactions of judgment pursuant to CPLR § 5020(a). 
452. Kravchenko has admitted in award enforcement litigation that he has no contact 
with the medical services providers themselves at all and only received the engagements through 
the attorneys handling the arbitrations.   Attorney Kravchenko has also admitted in testimony in 
such litigation to fee splitting.  Upon information and belief, the referring attorneys are working in 
concert with the No-Fault Attorneys to prosecute No -Fault claims on behalf of Defendants to 
obtain payment from American Transit for false and medically unnecessary services, procedures, 
and tests, and otherwise legally unenforceable claims. 
453. In addition to obtaining recovery for Defendants’ medically unnecessary 
procedures and services and fraudulent billing, the No-Fault Attorneys profit from the scheme by 
seeking fees well in excess of any reasonable amount for work performed in connection wi th the 
 
1 See supra ¶ 26; https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/22/nyregion/marvin-moy-boat-missing.html. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 74 of 93 PageID #: 74 
75 
CPLR § 7510 proceedings, even though they use substantially the same form filings in each case. 
New York courts have started to notice this scheme and have been drastically slashing their fees 
as inappropriate.  
454. Tenenbaum, Kravchenko and the Tenenba um firm are also defendants in separate 
litigation brought by American Transit in New York Supreme Court, captioned American Transit 
Insurance Company v. The Law Office of Jason Tenenbaum, P.C., (Index No. 619985/2023) (Sup. 
Ct. Nassau Cnty.).  They represented American Transit for years in hundreds of cases of No-Fault 
litigation, helped develop American Transit’s litigation strategies, and are now using that 
confidential information to litigate No-Fault cases against American Transit in breach of their 
obligations to American Transit.  
I. Damages 
 
455. The Defendants’ pattern of fraudulent conduct injured American Transit in its 
business and property by reason of violations of federal and state law.  American Transit’s injury 
includes, but is not limited to, compensatory damages for payments made to Rutland and Nexray. 
456. American Transit seeks compensatory damages for payments made to Rutland for 
false and fraudulent No-Fault claims in excess of $ 1,300,000.00, the exact amount to be 
determined at trial.  The chart annexed at Exhibit G sets forth representative examples of American 
Transit’s payments to Rutland in connection with No-Fault claims determined to be fraudulent and 
non-compensable. 
457. American Transit seeks compensatory damages for p ayments made to Nexray for 
false and fraudulent No-Fault claims in excess of $ 1,000.000.00, the exact amount to be 
determined at trial.  The chart annexed at Exhibit H sets forth representative examples of American 
Transit’s payments to Nexray in connection with No-Fault claims determined to be fraudulent and 
non-compensable. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 75 of 93 PageID #: 75 
76 
458. American Transit seeks comp ensatory damages  made to others in reli ance on 
Rutland, Nexray, Moy, and Weiner’s representations that the Rutland and Nexray were owned or 
controlled by a person who is a licensed physician. 
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Declaratory Judgment – 28 U.S.C. §§ 2201 and 2202 
Against All Defendants) 
 
459. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
460. There is an actual case and controversy between American Transit and Defendants 
regarding paid and unpaid billing for the services and treatment purportedly provided by Rutland, 
Nexray, Moy, and Weiner that Defendants have submitted to American Transit. 
461. Defendants had and have no right to receive payment from American Transit on the 
paid and unpaid billing because the services and treatment purportedly provided by Rutland, 
Nexray, Moy, and Weiner  were not medically necessary and were provided —to the extent that 
they were provided at all —pursuant to pre -determined protocols that serve to financially enrich 
Defendants, rather than to treat or otherwise benefit their patients. 
462. Rutland and Nexray had and have no right to receive payment from American 
Transit on the paid and unpaid billing because they are not in fact owned or controlled by a licensed 
physician, but by Pierre and the unlicensed John Doe Defendants , and are thus ineligible for 
payment under New York law. 
463. Rutland and Nexray  had and have no right to receive payment from American 
Transit on the paid and unpaid billing because the billing codes used for the services and treatment 
purportedly provided by Rutland, Nexray, Moy, and Weiner misrepresented and exaggerated the 
level of services that purportedly were provided in order to inflate the charges submitted to 
American Transit. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 76 of 93 PageID #: 76 
77 
464. Defendants had and have no right to receive payment from American Transit on the 
paid and unpaid billing because the services and treatment provided by Rutland, Nexray, Moy, and 
Weiner were provided—to the extent that they were provided at all—pursuant to illegal kickback 
and self-referral arrangements amongst Defendants and others. 
465. Accordingly, American Transit is entitled to judgment pursuant to the Declaratory 
Judgment Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2201 and 2202, declaring that Defendants had and have no right to 
receive payment for bills submitted to American Transit. 
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) 
Against Rutland) 
 
466. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
467. Rutland is an ongoing “enterprise” as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C.  § 1961(4), 
that engages in activities which affect interstate commerce. 
468. Pierre, Moy and others  knowingly conducted and/or participated, directly or 
indirectly, in the conduct of Rutland’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity consisting 
of repeated violations of the fed eral mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C.  § 1341, based upon the use of 
the United States mails to submit or cause to be submitted thousands of fraudulent charges on a 
continuous basis for more than six years seeking payments that Rutland was not entitled to receive 
under New York No-Fault laws because: (i) the billed-for-services were not medically necessary; 
(ii) the billed -for-services were performed and billed pursuant to a pre -determined, fraudulent 
treatment and billing protocol designed solely to enrich the Defendants; (iii) the billing codes used 
for the services misrepresented and exaggerated the level of services that purportedly  were 
provided in order to inflate the charges that could be submitted; (iv) the billed-for-services were 
performed pursuant to illegal kickback and referral schemes in violation of law; and (v) the billed-
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 77 of 93 PageID #: 77 
78 
for-services were per formed by a  company that was not owned and  controlled by a licensed 
physician, and was thus ineligible to receive payment under New York law.   Representative 
examples of the fraudulent charges and corresponding mailings submitted to American Transit that 
comprise, in part, the pattern of racketeering activity identified are set forth in the chart annexed 
hereto as Exhibit I. 
469. Rutland’s business is racketeering activity, inasmuch as the enterprise exists for the 
purpose of submitting fraudulent charges to insurers.  The predicate acts of ma il fraud are  the 
regular way in which Pierre, Moy and others operated Rutland, insofar as Rutland is not engaged 
in a legitimate medical practice, and acts of mail fraud therefore are essential in order for Rutland 
to function.  Furthermore, the intricate planning required to carry out and conceal the  predicate 
acts of mail fraud implies a continued threat of criminal activity, as does Pierre’s continued attempt 
to collect on the fraudulent billing submitted through Rutland to the present day. 
470. Rutland is engaged in inherently unlawful acts, inasmuch as it continues to submit 
and attempt collection on fraudulent billing submitted to American Transit and other insurers. 
These inherently unlawful acts are taken by Rutland in pursuit of inherently unlawful goals —
namely, the theft of money from American Transit and other insurers through fraudulent No-Fault 
billing. 
471. American Transit has been injured in its business and property by reason of the 
above-described conduct in that it has pai d at least $1,640,000.00 because of the fraudulent bills 
submitted through Rutland. 
472. By reason of its injury, American Transit is entitled to treble damages, costs, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1964(c), against Rutland and any other relief the 
Court deems just and proper. 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 78 of 93 PageID #: 78 
79 
THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) 
Against Nexray) 
 
473. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
474. Nexray is an ongoing “enterprise” as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C.  § 1961(4), 
that engages in activities which affect interstate commerce. 
475. Pierre, Weiner , and others  knowingly conducted and/or participated, directly or 
indirectly, in the conduct of Nexray’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity consisting 
of repeated violations of the federal mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1341, based upon the use of 
the United States mails to submit or cause to be submitted thousands of fraudulent charges on a 
continuous basis for more than six years seeking payments that Rutland was not entitled to receive 
under New York No-Fault laws because: (i) the billed-for-services were not medically necessary; 
(ii) the billed -for-services were performed and bil led pursuant to a pre -determined, fraudulent 
treatment and billing protocol designed solely to enrich the Defendants; (iii) the billing codes used 
for the services misrepresented and exaggerated the level of services that purportedly were 
provided in order to inflate the charges that could be submitted;  (iv) the billed-for-services were 
performed pursuant to illegal kickback and referral schemes in violation of law; and (v) the billed-
for-services were per formed by a  company that was not owned and controlled by a licensed 
physician, and was thus ineligible to receive payment under New York law .   Representative 
examples of fraudulent charges and corresponding mailings submitted to American Transit that 
comprise, in part, the pattern of racketeering activity identified  are set forth in the chart annexed 
hereto as Exhibit J. 
476. Nexray’s business is racketeering activity, inasmuch as the enterprise exists for the 
purpose of submitting fraudulent charges to insurers.  The predicate acts of mail fraud are the 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 79 of 93 PageID #: 79 
80 
regular way in which Pierre, Weiner, and others operated Nexray, insofar as Nexray is not engaged 
in a legitimate medical practice, and acts of mail fraud therefore are essential in order for Nexray 
to function.  Furthermore, the intricate planning required to carry out and conceal the predicate 
acts of mail fraud implies a continued threat of criminal activity, as does the fact that Pierre 
continues to attempt to collect on the fraudulent billing submitted through Rutland to the present 
day. 
477. Nexray is engaged in inherently unlawful acts, inasmuch as it continues to submit 
and attempt collection on fraudulent billing submitted to American Transit and ot her insurers. 
These inherently unlawful acts are taken by Nexray in pursuit of inherently unlawful goals — 
namely, the theft of money from American Transit and other insurers through fraudulent No-Fault 
billing. 
478. American Transit has been injured in its busi ness and property by reason of the 
above-described conduct in that it has paid at least $1,600,000.00 because of the fraudulent bills 
submitted through Nexray. 
479. By reason of its injury, American Transit is entitled to treble damages, costs, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1964(c), against Nexray and any other relief the 
Court deems just and proper. 
FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) 
Against Pierre and Moy) 
 
480. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
481. Rutland is an ongoing “enterprise”, as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4), 
that engages in activities which affect interstate commerce. 
482. Pierre and Moy are employed by or associated with the Rutland enterprise. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 80 of 93 PageID #: 80 
81 
483. Pierre and Moy knowingly have agreed, combined, and conspired to conduct and/or 
participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of Rutland’s affairs through a pattern  of 
racketeering activity consisting of repeated violations of the federal mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C.  
§ 1341, based upon the use of the United States mails to submit or cause to be submitted hundreds 
of fraudulent charges on a continuous basis for years seeking payments that Rutland was not  
eligible to receive under the New York No-Fault laws because: (i) the billed-for-services were not 
medically necessary; (ii) the billed -for-services were performed and billed pursuant to a  pre-
determined, fraudulent treatment and billing protocol designed solely to enrich the Defendants;  
(iii) the billing codes used for the services misrepresented  and exaggerated the level of services 
that purportedly were provided in order to inflate the charges that could be submitted; (iv) Rutland 
obtained its patients through the Defendants’ illegal kickback scheme ; and (v) the billed -for-
services were performed by a company that was not owned and controlled by a licensed physician, 
and was thus ineligible to receive payment under New York law . Representative examples of  
fraudulent bil ls and corresponding mailings submitted to  American Transit  that comprise the 
pattern of racketeering activity identified are set forth in the chart annexed hereto as Exhibit I. 
484. Pierre and Moy knew of, agreed to , and acted in furtherance of the common  and 
overall objective (i.e., to defraud American Transit and other insurers of money) by submitting or 
facilitating the submission of the fraudulent charges to American Transit. 
485. American Transit has been injured in its business and property by reason of the  
above-described conduct in that it has paid at least $1,640,000.00 because of the fraudulent bills 
submitted through Rutland. 
486. By reason of its injury, American Transit is entitled to treble damages, costs, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), Pierre, Moy, and Weiner and any other 
relief the Court deems just and proper. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 81 of 93 PageID #: 81 
82 
FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) 
Against Pierre and Weiner) 
 
487. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
488. Nexray is an ongoing “enterprise”, as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4), 
that engages in activities which affect interstate commerce. 
489. Pierre and Weiner are employed by or associated with the Rutland enterprise. 
490. Pierre and Weiner knowingly have agreed, combined, and conspired to conduct 
and/or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of Nexray’s affairs through a pattern of 
racketeering activity consisting of repeated violations of the federal mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1341, based upon the use of the United States mails to submit or cause to be submitted hundreds 
of fraudulent charges on a continuous basis for years seeking payments that Nexray was not 
eligible to receive under the New York No-Fault laws because: (i) the billed-for-services were not 
medically necessary; (ii) the billed -for-services were performed and billed pursuant to a pre -
determined, fraudulent treatment and billing protocol designed solely to enrich the Defendants; 
(iii) the billing codes used for the services misrepresented and e xaggerated the level of services 
that purportedly were provided in order to inflate the charges that could be submitted; (iv) Rutland 
obtained its patients through the Defendants’ illegal kickback scheme; and (v) the billed -for-
services were performed by a company that was not owned and controlled by a licensed physician, 
and was thus ineligible to receive payment under New York law. Representative examples of 
fraudulent bills and corresponding mailings submitted to American Transit that comprise the 
pattern of racketeering activity identified are set forth in the chart annexed hereto as Exhibit J. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 82 of 93 PageID #: 82 
83 
491. Pierre and Weiner knew of, agreed to, and acted in furtherance of the common and 
overall objective (i.e., to defraud American Transit and other insurers of money) by submitting or 
facilitating the submission of the fraudulent charges to American Transit. 
492. American Transit has been injured in its business and property by reason of the 
above-described conduct in that it has paid at least $1,6 00,000.00 because of the frau dulent bills 
submitted through Nexray. 
493. By reason of its injury, American Transit is entitled to treble damages, costs, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), Pierre and Weiner and any other relief 
the Court deems just and proper. 
SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) 
Against Defendants) 
(Association In Fact Enterprise) 
494. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
495. At all times relevant to this complaint, Defendants Pierre, Moy, Weiner, Rutland, 
Nexray and the John Doe Defendants constituted a separate associated in fact enterprise within the 
meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4), which engaged in, and the activities of which affect interstate 
commerce (the “Associated In Fact Enterprise”).  Such enterprise was formed with the common 
purpose of engaging in fraudulent activities, including but not limited to using the No-Fault system 
in New York State as a tool for committed improper acts against American Transit to enrich the 
enterprise. 
496. At all times relevant to this Complaint, such Defendants were “persons” associated 
with an enterprise within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961(3) and 1965(c), with an existence 
separate and apart from the Associated In Fact Enterprise. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 83 of 93 PageID #: 83 
84 
497. The Defendants conducted or participated, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of 
the Associated In Fact Enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity in violation of 
18 U.S.C. § 1962(c).  Pierre is an architect of a scheme involving paying bribes to 911 op erators, 
hospital employees, among others, in exchange for the referral of automobile accident victims to 
Rutland, a No-Fault medical mill in New York.   Rutland, in turn, referred patients to Nexray, a n 
MRI and x-ray provider, for unnecessary diagnosti c imaging.  On paper, Moy is the owner of 
Rutland and Weiner the owner of Nexray, and in that capacity, Moy and Weiner enabled Rutland 
and Nexray to regularly recommend unnecessary procedures so that they could bill for inflated 
charges to maximize billing  even though those procedures were not necessary and could have 
harmed patients.  The alleged acts herein constitute a pattern of racketeering activity within the 
meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 1961, to wit, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341 and 1343: 
a. Such Defendants devised and executed a scheme and artifice to defraud American 
Transit of its money and property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, 
representations, and promises and by concealment of material facts regarding the 
health care claims for payment; 
 
b. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in that such Defendants concealed that the 
Nexray was not eligible to receive No -Fault benefits pursuant to Insurance Law § 
5102(a)(1) and 1 1 N.Y.C.R.R. § 65 -3.16(a)(12), when in fact it was not properly 
licensed in that it obtained patients through an illegal kickback scheme. 
 
c. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in that such Defendants concealed that Rutland 
was not eligible to receive No -Fault benefits pursuant to Insurance Law § 
5102(a)(1) and 11 N. Y.C.R.R. § 65-3.16(a)(12), when in fact it was not properly 
licensed in that it obtained patients through an illegal kickback scheme. 
 
d. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in tha t such Defendants concealed that Nexray 
was not eligible to receive No -Fault benefits pursuant to Insurance Law § 
5102(a)(1) and 11 N.Y.C.R.R. § 65 -3.16(a)(12), when in fact it was not properly 
licensed in that it obtained patients through an illegal kickback scheme. 
 
e. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in that such Defendants concealed that Nexray 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 84 of 93 PageID #: 84 
85 
and Rutland’s representations that the billed-for services were medically necessary 
were false, when in fact the billed-for services were not medically necessary and 
were performed and billed pursuant to fraudulent scheme to profit off the No-Fault 
system and particularly American Transit.  These fraudulent and medically 
unnecessary ser vices included, but were not limited to, improper and medically 
unnecessary medical examinations and consultations, provision of medically 
unnecessary chiropractic services, and electrodiagnostic testing. 
 
f. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in that such Defendants concealed that Nexray 
and Rutland’s representation that the billed -for services were properly billed in 
accordance with the Fee Schedule were false, when in fact the billing codes used 
for the billed -for services misrepresented and exaggerated the level and type of 
services that purportedly were provided in order to inflate the charges submitted to 
American Transit. 
 
g. Pursuant to this scheme, such Defendants submitted to American Transit false and 
fraudulent claims and information in that such Defendants concealed that Nexray 
and Rutland were not eligible to receive paym ents from American Transit in that 
they were not owned or controlled by a licensed physician. 
 
h. For the purpose of executing this scheme and artifice to defraud, s uch Defendants 
submitted such false and fraudulent claims and information to American Transit by 
use of the mail and interstate wire facilities and cause d American Transit to make 
payments for said fraudulent claims by use of the mail and interstate wire facilities. 
 
498. The Defendants have engaged in this scheme from 2009 and up to the present and 
continuing if the Court does not provide relief, the fraudulent enterprise will continue to seek and 
submit and collect fraudulent claims.  Every singly claim submitted by Defendants associated with 
this enterprise has been fraudulent. 
499. A list of the various mailings constituting a substantial number of the requ isite 
predicate acts is annexed hereto as Exhibit I and Exhibit J. 
500. The Associated In Fact Enterprise is distinct from, and has an existence beyond, 
the pattern of racketeering that is described herein, namely by recruiting, overseeing, and 
coordinating many professionals and non-professionals who have been responsible for facilitating 
and performing a variety of administrative and professional functions beyond the acts of mail fraud 
(i.e. the submission of the fraudulent bills to American Transit), by providing benefits for the staff 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 85 of 93 PageID #: 85 
86 
of the enterprise, by creating and maintaining files and other records and by negotiating and 
executing various facility lease agreements. 
501. By reason of its injury, American Transit is entitled to treble damages, costs, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c)  in an amount no l and any other relief 
the Court deems just and proper. 
SEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(New York Public Health Law § 238-a 
Against All Defendants) 
 
502. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
503. Section 238-a of the New York Public Health Law provides, in relevant part: 
Prohibition of financial arrangements and referrals. 1. (a)  A 
practitioner authorized to order clinical laborator y services,  
pharmacy services, radiation therapy services, physical therapy 
services or x-ray or imaging services may not make a referral for 
such services to a health care provider authorized to provide such 
services where such  practitioner or immediate f amily member of 
such practitioner has a  financial relationship with such health care 
provider. 
 
(b) A health care provider or a referring practitioner may not present 
or cause to be presented to any individual or third party payor or  
other entity a claim, bill, or other demand for payment for clinical  
laboratory services, pharmacy services, radiation therapy services,  
physical therapy services or x -ray or imaging services furnished  
pursuant to a referral prohibited by this subdivision. 
 
7. If a referring pr actitioner or a health care provider furnishing  
clinical laboratory services, pharmacy services, radiation therapy  
services, physical therapy services or x -ray or imaging services or 
any other person or entity collects any amounts that were billed in  
violation of this section, such referring practitioner and health care  
provider and other person or entity shall be jointly and severally  
liable to the payor for any amounts so collected. 
 
504. Moy and Weiner are practitioners as that term is defined under Section 2 38(1l) of 
the New York Public Health Law. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 86 of 93 PageID #: 86 
87 
505. Moy and Weiner regularly made referrals to entities they had financial relationships 
with including referrals for physical therapy services and x-ray or imaging services.   
506. Rutland and Nexray are each “health care providers” as that term is defined under 
Section 238(6) of the New York Public Health Law. 
507. Moy and Weiner had a “financial relationship” with Rutland and Nexray as that 
term is defined under Section 238(3) of the New York Public Health Law. 
508. The referrals by Moy and Weiner violate Section 238-a(9) of the New York Public 
Health Law which prohibits arrangements or schemes which a practitioner or health care provider 
knows or should know has a principal purpose of assuring referrals to a particular health care 
provider which, if the practitioner directly made referrals to such health care provider, would be 
in violation of Section 238-a(l) of the Public Health Law. 
509. American Transit has made payments to Rutland and Nexray in an amount to be 
determined at trial, for services billed in violation of Section 238-a of the Public Health Law and, 
pursuant to Section 238-a(7) of the Public Health Law, are entitled to recover such amounts from 
Rutland, Nexray, Moy, and Weiner who, as health care providers and practitioners are jointly and 
severally liable to such plaintiffs for the amounts they received in violation of New York Public 
Health Law§ 238-a.  
510. Plaintiffs are also entitled to an order and judgment against all Defendants declaring 
all amounts billed as violative of New York Public Health Law§ 238 -a and not eligible for  
payment. 
EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Common Law Fraud 
Against Rutland, Pierre, and Moy) 
511. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 87 of 93 PageID #: 87 
88 
512. Rutland, Pierre, and Moy intentionally and knowingly made false and fraudulent 
statements of material fact to American Transit and concealed material facts fro m American 
Transit in the course of their submission of fraudulent bills seeking payment for the services and 
treatments provided by Rutland and Moy. 
513. The false and fraudulent statements of material fact and acts of fraudulent 
concealment include: (i) in every claim, the representation that Rutland was properly licensed, and 
therefore, eligible to receive No -Fault benefits pursuant to Insurance Law § 510 2(a)(1) and 11 
N.Y.C.R.R. § 65-3.16(a)(12), when in fact it was not properly licensed in that it obtained patients 
through an illegal kickback scheme; (ii) in every claim, the representation that the billed -for 
services were medically necessary, when in fa ct the billed -for services were not medically 
necessary and were performed and billed pursuant to a fraudulent scheme to profit off the No-Fault 
system and particularly American Transit ; (iii) in every claim, the representation that the billed -
for services were properly billed , when in fact the billing codes used for the billed -for services 
misrepresented and exaggerated the level and type of services that purportedly were provided in 
order to inflate the charges subm itted to American Transit ; and ( iv) in e very claim, the 
representation that Rutland was owned or controlled by a l icensed physician and was eli gible to 
receive payment under New York law.   
514. Rutland, Pierre, and Moy intentionally made the above -described false and 
fraudulent statements and concealed material facts in a calculated effort to induce American 
Transit to pay charges submitted through Rutland that were not compensable under the New York 
No-Fault laws. 
515. American Transit has been injured in its business and property by reason of the 
above-described conduct in that it has paid at leas t $1,640,000.00 because of the fraudulent bills 
submitted through Rutland. 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 88 of 93 PageID #: 88 
89 
516. Rutland, Pierre, and Moy’s extensive fraudulent conduct demonstrates a high 
degree of moral turpitude and wanton dishonesty that entitles American Transit to recover punitive 
damages. 
517. American Transit is entitled to compensatory and punitive damages, together with 
interests and costs, against Rutland, Pierre, and Moy and any other relief the Court deems just and 
proper. 
NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Common Law Fraud 
Against Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner) 
518. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
519. Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner intentionally and knowingly made false and fraudulent 
statements of material fact to American Transit and concealed material facts from American 
Transit in the course of their submission of fraudulent bills seeking payment for the services and 
treatments provided by Nexray and Weiner. 
520. The false and fraudulent statements of material fact and acts of fraudulent 
concealment include: (i) in every claim, the representation that Nexray was properly licensed, and 
therefore, eligible to receive No -Fault benefits pursuant to Insurance Law § 5102(a)(1) and 11 
N.Y.C.R.R. § 65-3.16(a)(12), when in fact it was not properly licensed in that it obtained patients 
through an illegal kickback scheme; (ii) in every claim, the representati on that the billed -for 
services were medically necessary, when in fact the billed -for services were not medically 
necessary and were performed and billed pursuant to fraudulent scheme to profit off the No-Fault 
system and particularly American Transit ; (iii) in every claim, the representation that the billed -
for services were properly billed  when in fact the billing codes used for the billed -for services 
misrepresented and exaggerated the level and type of services that purportedly were provided in 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 89 of 93 PageID #: 89 
90 
order to inflate the charges submitted to American Transit. ; and ( iv) in e very claim, the 
representation that Nexray was owned or controlled by a l icensed physician and was eli gible to 
receive payment under New York law. 
521. Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner intentionally made the above -described false and 
fraudulent statements and concealed material facts in a calculated effort to induce Am erican 
Transit to pay charges submitted through Nexray that were not compensable under the New York 
No-Fault laws. 
522. American Transit has been injured in its business and property by reason of the 
above-described conduct in that it has paid at leas t $1,600,00.00 pursuant to the fraudulent bills 
submitted through Nexray. 
523. Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner’s extensive fraudulent conduct demonstrates a high 
degree of moral turpitude and wanton dishonesty that entitles American Transit to recover punitive 
damages. 
524. American Transit is entitled to compensatory and punitive damages, together with 
interests and costs, Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner and any other relief the Court deems just and  
proper. 
TENTH CAUSE OF ACTION 
(Unjust Enrichment 
Against All Defendants) 
525. American Transit incorporates each and every allegation set forth above as though 
fully set forth herein. 
526. As set forth above, Rutland, Nexray, Pierre, Moy, and Weiner have engaged in 
improper, unlawful, and/or unjust acts, all to the harm and detriment of American Transit. 
527. Based on Defendants’ improper, unlawful, and/or unjust acts , all of which were 
concealed from American Transit, w hen American Transit received and then paid the bills, 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 90 of 93 PageID #: 90 
91 
including the charges submitted by or on behalf of Rutland and Nexray, it reasonably believed that 
it was legally obligated to make such payments. 
528. Defendants have been enriched at American Transit’s expense by American 
Transit’s payments, which constituted a benefit that Rutland and Nexray voluntarily accepted and 
distributed amongst themselves notwithstanding their improper, unlawful, and unjust billing 
scheme. 
529. Rutland and Nexray’s retention of American Transit’s payments violates 
fundamental principles of justice, equity, and good conscience. 
530. By reason of the above, Defendants have been unjustly enriched in an amount to be 
determined at trial. 
PRAYER FOR RELIEF 
 WHEREFORE, Plaintiff American Transit Insurance Company respectfully requests that 
judgment enter in its favor as follows: 
A. On the First Cause of Action against all Defendants, a declaration pursuant to the 
Declaratory Judgment Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2201 and 2202, that Rutland and Nexray have no right to 
receive payment for any prior, pending or future  bills they submitted or attempt to submit to 
American Transit , and an order that Defendants must disgorge all monies they received from 
American Transit in payment of these bills; 
B. On the Second Cause of Action against Rutland, for compensatory damages in 
favor of American Transit in an amount to be determined at trial but in excess of $1,640,000.00, 
together with treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) 
plus interest; 
C. On the Third Cause of Action against Nexray, for compensatory damages in favor 
of American Transit in an amount to be determined at trial but in excess of $1,600,000.00, together 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 91 of 93 PageID #: 91 
92 
with treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) plus 
interest; 
D. On the Fourth Cause of Action against Pierre and Moy, for compensatory damages 
in favor of American Transit in an amount to be determined at trial but in excess of $1,640,000.00, 
together with treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) 
plus interest; 
E. On the Fifth Cause of Action against Pierre and Weiner, for compensatory damages 
in favor of American Transit in an amount to be determined at trial but in excess of $1,600,000.00, 
together with treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) 
plus interest; 
F. On the Sixth Cause of Action against all Defendants for compensatory damages in 
favor of American Transit in an amount to be determined at trial but in excess of $3,240,000.00, 
together with treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) 
plus interest; 
G. On the Seventh Cause of Action against all Defendants, a declaratory judgment 
declaring that American Transit has no obligation to pay pending or future No -Fault claims 
submitted to it by Rutland and Nexray , an order obligating Defendants to d isgorge the monies 
American Transit paid to them in an amount no less than, and a money judgment in such amount. 
H. On the Eighth Cause of Action against Rutland, Pierre, and Moy, a money judgment 
in its favor and against such defendants for compensatory damages in an amount to be determined 
at trial but in excess of $1,640,000.00, together with punitive damages, costs, and interest; 
I. On the Ninth Cause of Action against Nexray, Pierre, and Weiner, a money 
judgment in its favor and against such defendants for compensatory damages in an amount to be 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 92 of 93 PageID #: 92 
93 
determined at trial but in excess of $ 1,600,000.00, together with punitive damages, costs, and 
interest; 
J. On the Tenth Cause of Action against all Defendants, a money judgment in its 
favor and against such Defendants for compensatory damages in an amount to be determined at 
trial but in excess of $2,300,000.00, together with costs, and interest; and 
K. Such other and further relief as the Court deems to be just and proper. 
JURY DEMAND 
American Transit hereby demands a jury trial on all issues so triable. 
Dated: New York, New York 
January 17, 2024 
 
GREENBERG TRAURIG, LLP 
 
 
By: /s/ James W. Perkins     
James W. Perkins 
Francis J. Serbaroli 
John C. Molluzzo, Jr. 
One Vanderbilt Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
(212) 801-9200 
perkinsj@gtlaw.com   
serbarolif@gtlaw.com 
molluzzoj@gtlaw.com 
 
Attorneys for American Transit  
Insurance Company 
 
 
 
 
Case 1:24-cv-00360-RPK-CLP   Document 1   Filed 01/17/24   Page 93 of 93 PageID #: 93